# Anal swelling starting 2021-09-12

## Initial symptoms and development

On the morning of Sunday 2021-09-12, after bowel movement, I felt a little
pain in my lower anus. I didn't think much of it. Later that day, a
toilet clog (for unrelated reasons) led to me needing to suppress
bowel and urine movements, which might have increased the pain. The
toilet clog was resolved the afternoon of Monday 2021-09-13.

For most of Monday and Tuesday, I would experience a slight pain
whenever contracting the relevant muscles (I think they are called
sphincter muscles), which generally happened during major posture
changes (sitting to standing). While engaging in a specific activity,
such as sitting, standing, walking, or running, pain was infrequent
and minimal.

On inspection, there was a slight swelling/injury. I'm applying lotion
regularly and will investigate further if the situation does not
improve in a few days.

On the morning of Wednesday 2021-09-15, after noticing slight bleeding
in the area, I put a large bandage to cover the area and facilitate
faster recovery.

I read the articles
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/326004#summary and
https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/symptoms/14612-rectal-bleeding
-- the former seemed a better fit for my symptoms.

## Later developmment

I eventually removed the bandage later on Wednesday 2021-09-15. For
the next few days, I continued to feel some pain. I also needed to be
careful to not contract or expand the sphincter muscles too much when
feeling the itch. Some of my findings were:

* Thinking consciously about it tended to correlate with expanding or
  contracting too much.
* Expanding or contracting a little bit tended to address the itch
  without causing pain, but I didn't adopt that as a strategy because
  I often lost control and ended up doing too much.

* One trick was to go in the opposite directioon as my itch; if I felt
  like contracting, expand. This made it a bit less likely that I
  would overshoot.

## Near-normal situation

By Saturday 2021-09-18, I was feeling a marked improvement. Over the
next few days, till Tuesday 2021-09-21, things comtinued to
improve. During this period, most of the time I didn't feel the itch
or pain. The occasional frequency of itch or pain kept going down.

As of Tuesday 2021-09-21 I consider the issue resolved.

## Possible causes and aggravating factors

* Spicy food from Mehak Indian Cuisine on 2021-09-11, more than usual.
* Suppression of urine and bowel movements due to toilet clog.
