# Succession plan

This is a succession plan for the `diet-exercise-health` GitHub
repository in the case of Vipul Naik's death or permanent
incapacitation. This plan should be viewed as non-binding guidance on
the people who will inherit Vipul Naik's digital resources.

## Repository

### No further substantive updates

No further substantive updates should be made to this repository after
Vipul Naik's death or permanent incapacitation. That's because this
repository is intended to only cover Vipul Naik's diet, exercise and
health status while alive, and therefore its underlying truth should
not update after his death or permanent incapacitation.

Vipul Naik's digital successor on GitHub, or any others that person
delegates to, may make updates of this sort (but are not
obligated/expected to), and no other updates:

* Updates to indicate that Vipul Naik is deceased
* Spelling fixes
* Fixes to syntax for SQL
* Devops/maintenance fixes, such as robots.txt (though robots.txt
  specifically does not apply right now as there is no associated
  website)

### Digital successor may (optionally) archive the repository or transfer ownership

See
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-personal-account-on-github/managing-access-to-your-personal-repositories/maintaining-ownership-continuity-of-your-personal-accounts-repositories#about-successors)
for the full list of options available for repositories to digital
successors on GitHub.

Vipul's digital successor on GitHub may archive the repository,
assuming that the following are still true (these were true as of
2023-11-04): an archived repository can still be cloned and forked, so
no flexibility is lost. This seems like the simplest option and is
Vipul's recommended option.

Another option available to the digital successor is to transfer the
repository to the successor's own GitHub account. This may be the
right path to take if Vipul's digital successor (or somebody else whom
the successor grants write access) is interested in making the kinds
of updates listed in the preceding section.

### Sharing of information to help with health research

Vipul Naik's digital successor and any other people are free to share
the information in this repository for help with health research,
whether it is from the perspective of medical research or personal
health/productivity work. As the repository will stay public (even if
archived), people are of course free to find it. Vipul Naik's digital
successor or other people are also free to advertise it or spread
awareness of it to others who may benefit. This may be particularly
relevant if there is something medically interesting about Vipul
Naik's manner of death or permanent incapacitation, and there is a
possibility that reviewing Vipul Naik's past health records could be
helpful in understanding this.
