# 2025 switch from PPO to HMO

My health insurance for the past several years has been with Blue
Shield of Califonia, and I have opted for the HDHP (high deductible
health plan) PPO (preferred provider organization). For 2025, I am
switching to a HMO (health maintenance organization) plan. The HMO has
a lower premium ($591.59 per month compared to $620.36 for the HDHP
PPO) but the difference is not so high that other considerations are
meaningless. This document covers some of those other considerations.

TL;DR: HMO is cheaper and more friendly to occasional urgent care and
emergency room visits than PPO, but covers fewer doctors and
facilities, and is less supportive of frequent travel. It has a lower
premium but higher deductible. Given my use case, the HMO is fine for
me, and I have contingency plans including paying out-of-pocket,
waiting, and going through the referral process in case I do end up
needing a doctor or facility that is only covered by the PPO and not
the HMO.

## The fundamental PPO/HMO difference and why HMO is fine for me

The fundamental PPO/HMO difference is that PPO plans only *prefer*
in-network providers (with within-network discounts), but still
reimburse for out-of-network providers. In contrast, HMO plans only
reimburse within network with the exception of emergency services and
urgent care. I document below why this is not an issue.

### Both the hospitals within Berkeley (that I expect to use) are within Blue Shield's HMO

The two main hospitals in Berkeley (the Alta Bates campus and Herrick
Campus) are both under Sutter Health and both of them are in-network
for Blue Shield, hence covered by the HMO.

#### However, some hospitals in San Francisco fall within the PPO and don't fall within the HMO

For instance, the California Pacific Medical Center (also part of the
Sutter Health system) falls within the PPO but not within the HMO.

Overall, I don't expect there to be high enough probability that my
medical needs will be beyond the scope of the hospitals in Berkeley,
but within scope of the California Pacific Medical Center. However, if
that does happen, the main options will be either cash payment (which
I should have enough funds for) or getting an authorization from the
HMO. If it's an ongoing expense, I have the option of switching to a
PPO the next year.

### I don't expect to be traveling enough to care about the expanded network offered by a PPO

For people who travel a lot, the expanded network offered by a PPO is
beneficial. In my case, my expected amount of travel is fairly low (0
to 2 trips). The things I might need to use during travel are
emergency room and urgent care, both of which are covered.

### There are fewer doctors under the HMO (when trying to list all doctors in my area in a given specialty)

For instance, for gastroenterology, I got 34 doctors with the PPO and
18 doctors with the HMO. For dermatology, I got 53 doctors with the
PPO and 24 doctors with the HMO.

I don't have a specific need for a specialist doctor at this point, so
it's hard to say whether the reduced range of doctors on the HMO plan
would meaningfully affect my ability to find a doctor. In practice, I
do not expect to need to consult a specialist urgently.  I expect to
continue to have the three options: (a) wait out to next year when I
can switch to the PPO, (b) pay out of pocket for the time being while
I wait to switch next year, and (c) go through the formal process of
getting referrals. I expect all these options to be accessible to me
for most of the kinds of health conditions I anticipate having, with
the best option varying based on the situation.

## Differences in deductible and out-of-pocket max

For 2025, the deductible and out-of-pocket max for the HDHP PPO are
both $6,650, whereas the deductible and out-of-pocket max for the HMO
are $7,500 and $8,850. The difference is not meaningful for me. In
practice, I expect unexpected medical expenses (that would eat into
the deductible) to be under $3,000 (with the big variable here being
emergency room and urgent care costs, covered in a subsequent
section). In any case, I have enough of an emergency fund that the
liquidity effect of that extra $2,200 is not meaningful.

## Differences in coverage of emergency room and urgent care visits

Both plans cover emergency room and urgent care visits (all health
insurance plans in California are required to cover these).

* Emergency room:

  * HMO: 50% coinsurance; deductible does not apply (both in network
    and out of network)

  * PPO: fully covered but deductible does apply (so if I am below
    deductible I would have to pay full price) (both in network and
    out of network, but in network I would get in-network discounts)

* Urgent care:

  * HMO: $60/visit when done in network or, when outside the plan
    service area, out-of-network (basically they only cover
    out-of-network if there is no in-network option available);
    deductible does not apply

  * PPO: fully covered but deductible does apply (so if I am below
    deductible I would have to pay full price) (both in network and
    out of network, but in network I would get in-network discounts)

The way these costs work, and considering that the urgent care and
emergency room in Berkeley are both covered by the HMO and PPO, the
HMO actually seems better for me if I expect to use urgent care and
emergency services relatively rarely (up to 5 times a year). In the
past decade, I've only used urgent care once, and the HMO plan would
have been way better cost-wise for that urgent care visit if it capped
me to a flat $60.

It is not totally clear to me if bloodwork ordered as part of an
urgent care visit would be included under urgent care center costs
(and therefore folded under the $60/visit HMO charge). From a
budgeting perspective, I should assume that it is not covered, until I
get clear confirmation that it is.

## Vaccinations

I generally do one COVID-19 vaccine and one flu vaccine every winter
season, which could translate to between 0 and 2 of each depending on
when in the season I get the vaccine. While I can cover these
out-of-pocket, having insurance cover them is a nice perk.

It looks like both the HMO and PPO plan use the [Rx Ultra
network](https://www.blueshieldca.com/en/home/be-well/pharmacy/our-pharmacy-network)
that provides pharmacy benefits including Walgreens and
CVS. Vaccinations done at a pharmacy are covered under pharmacy
benefits.

All plans cover vaccinations as these fall under [preventive
care](https://www.healthcare.gov/preventive-care-adults/). The flu is
explicitly listed there. COVID-19 is not explicitly listed (perhaps
because it's a more recent vaccine) but my experience so far suggests
that it is always covered. In any case, there does not seem to be any
difference between HMO and PPO in terms of whether they cover
preventive care or in terms of their pharmacy network, so this is not
a point of differentiation between the services.
