# 2025 blood test plans

## Current planned test time

I'm thinking of getting these tests done around late March or early
April 2025.

## Cost estimate

Cost estimates were based on list prices on requestatest.com on
2024-09-25.

Total cost of tests so far: LabCorp: $420; Quest Diagnostics: $478

**Currently, the pricing favors LabCorp. However, prices are subject
to change so recheck all the prices before starting the booking
process.**

## Test reruns from 2024

For background, see [2024 blood test plans: Results and
takeaways](../2024/2024-blood-test-plans.md#results-and-takeaways).

### Lipid panel: followup measurement because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/lipid-panel-testing (LabCorp: $34; Quest Diagnostics: $36)

After my September 2024 test, I reduced my olive oil consumption,
added seaweed, and increased my omega-3 dosage. The first of these is
expected to have a direct effect through reducing my saturated fat
levels. Increasing omega-3 dosage may also help.

If this measurement continues to show values in the same range as
September 2024, I plan to devote significant further resources to
learning and trying things to reduce cholesterol.

### Apolipoprotein B

Test details: https://requestatest.com/apolipoprotein-b-testing (LabCorp: $59; Quest Diagnostics: $65)

Based on recent reading, apolipoprotein B is the mechanism by which
high cholesterol levels increase the risk of atherosclerosis. The
level of apolipoprotein B may therefore be a more direct metric of the
rate of damage. It will be good to measure this. I think it's
important to measure this along with lipid profile, in order to get a
clear correlational picture of the two.

### Comprehensive metabolic panel

Test details: https://requestatest.com/comprehensive-metabolic-panel-testing (LabCorp: $34; Quest Diagnostics: $34)

This is a good test to get done regularly. However, the particular
motivation for doing it just 6-7 months after the previous test is to
confirm that the low BUN level (which was due to temporary diet
changes that reduced protein intake) has been fixed.

I might end up combining this with a CBC with differential; however,
as of the time of writing this, I don't see a compelling reason to get
a CBC with differential just 6-7 months after the previous
one. However, if I have concerning health episodes in the interim, it
may make sense to get one.

### Omega-3: followup measurement to test the success of supplementation and dietary changes

Test details: https://requestatest.com/omega-3-blood-test (LabCorp: $129; Quest Diagnostics: $129)

The goal is to see if the [supplement dosage increase started
2024-09-25](../2024/2024/2024-09-25-decision-to-increase-omega-3-supplement-daily-dose.md) is working well.

## New tests

### Magnesium-zinc-copper panel

Test details: https://requestatest.com/mag-zinc-copper-panel-testing (LabCorp: $125; Quest Diagnostics: $125)

My primary interest is in magnesium and zinc, but the other parts of
the panel don't hurt.

### Creatine

Test details: https://requestatest.com/creatine-blood-test (LabCorp: $39; Quest Diagnostics: $89)

I haven't been tested before for this (according to my records), but I
did get a test for the related creatinine, where I was below the
expected range. However, the creatinine test was mainly to detect
being *above* the relevant range.

Creatine is something that vegans are expected to be deficient in. In
2021, I skipped the testing as I was not planning to start on
supplementation even conditional to being deficient. In 2024, I
skipped the test from the first set of tests as I was already getting
a lot of things tested. Now that I've been doing strength exercises
more regularly, I think I'm prepared to start supplementation if
deficient, and the test results might inform the dose I use to
supplement.
