# 2025-01-15: audiological evaluation

This document is for an audiological evaluation scheduled with
Berkeley Hearing Center for Wednesday 2025-01-15 at 3:45
PM. Eventually, this transformed into an earwax removal (cerumen
removal) appointment.

The corresponding best practices doc is
[here](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-audiological-evaluation-appointments.md).

Background documents:

* [2024-11-29: reduced hearing in left
  ear](../2024/2024-11-29-reduced-hearing-in-left-ear.md) has
  background on the underlying issue motivating the audiological
  evaluation as well as my progress with investigating the issue.

* [2024-12-23: Berkeley Hearing Center
  call](../2024/2024-12-23-berkeley-hearing-center-call.md) has
  details on the phone call through which I booked the appointment,
  and the filling of the intake form after that.

## Call on 2025-01-13 and update to intake form answers

On Monday 2025-01-13 at 9:48 AM, I placed a call to Berkeley Hearing
Center to ask if I could update the intake form. They said that
there's no way to update it online, but that I could email
office@berkeleyhearing.com with my updated answers (to whatever
questions I wanted to update the answers for).

> What would you like to achieve from today's visit? Why did you decide to schedule an appointment today?

I want to get a formal evaluation of the hearing in both my ears. I
haven't had an audiological evaluation as an adult, and I have
reason to suspect hearing loss, with asymmetry between the ears
(with more loss in the left ear). More details on the loss of
hearing are in later answers.

In addition to the audiogram, I am also hoping to have any earwax and
fluid buildup in my outer ear cleared, get a better understanding of
whether I have excessive earwax, as well as get some indications of
whether there may be issues such as fluid buildup in my middle or
inner ear that are affecting my hearing. I have reasons to suspect
fluid buildup, as elaborated in future answers.

If I do have excessive earwax that is adversely affecting my hearing,
I want to understand what at-home earwax removal regimen is likely to
work, or how to safely experiment to find out. So far I've tried one
round of sodium bicarbonate that seemed to make no difference
(documented in a later answer).

If the issue is fluid buildup in the inner or middle ear or something
else that cannot be addressed in your office or by me at home, I want
to get referrals for followup consults or diagnostic exams.

I would love to get more insight into any other things I should be
doing to prevent further hearing loss.

I also want a better understanding of how often I should be doing
at-home hearing tests (and any other advice you have regarding the
best ways to do such testing) and how often I should seek formal
audiological evaluation. As documented in later answers, I've been
doing some at-home testing to quantify my hearing loss and track it
over time, but it would be good to get thoughts on better ways to do
such testing.

> Please describe situations that you have hearing difficulty in:

The magnitude of my hearing loss is small enough that it hasn't
become an issue in normal situations. The main inconvenience right
now is that my headphones don't feel balanced by default when I use
them -- they feel slightly skewed to the right.

I've attempted to quantify my hearing through a variety of methods,
as documented below.

a) Online single-frequency hearing test at
   https://www.resound.com/en-us/online-hearing-test using both normal
   headphones and bone conduction headphones, with the tests conducted
   every few days and at different times of the day and night; the
   results are fairly consistent across different iterations:

  * 500 Hz: Both ears are very similar to each other, on both normal
    headphones and bone conduction headphones (score of about 6 out of
    12 in both cases)

  * 1000 Hz: The right ear is a bit better than the left ear on normal
    headphones (8 left versus 5 right out of 12) but both ears are
    about the same with bone conduction headphones (8 out of 12).

  * 2000 Hz: The right ear is a lot better than the left ear on normal
    headphones (8 left versus 3.5 right out of 12) and also on bone
    conduction headphones (11.5 left versus 6.5 right out of 12).

  * 4000 Hz: The right ear is a lot better than the left ear on normal
    headphones (8 left versus 1.5 right out of 12) but only slightly
    better on bone conduction headphones (8 left versus 6 right out of
    12).

  Overall, the right ear is at least as good as the left ear for all
  frequencies, with a bigger gap on higher frequencies, and a bigger
  gap on normal headphones than bone conduction headphones. This
  suggests that at least part of the issue is with the outer or middle
  ear.

b) Playing YouTube tracks such as
   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVVaqFDG6Fo and identifying the
   minimum volume in each ear at which I can make out the words, using
   both normal headphones and bone conduction headphones. I use a
   Macbook Air. I use the fine-grained control of volume by using
   alt+shift when adjusting the volume, allowing for 64 volume levels
   in total.

  * Using normal headphones, I can just about make out the
    words of the song with a volume of 6 to 8 out of 64 (left ear) and
    1 out of 64 (right ear).

  * Using bone conduction headphones, I can just about make out the
    words of the song with a volume of 1 out of 64 on both ears.

  These results paint a picture of comparison between the ears that is
  broadly similar to the picture painted by the single-frequency
  hearing test.

c) Subjectively identifying what volume in the left ear seemed as loud
   to me as a given volume in the right ear, using both normal
   headphones and bone conduction headphones.

  * Using normal headphones, a volume of 4/64 (1/16) on the right ear
    matches about 20/64 (5/16) on the left ear.

  * Using bone conduction headphones, a volume of 4/64 (1/16) on the
    right ear matches about 12/64 (3/16) on the left ear. However, one
    big difference is that with bone conduction headphones, the words
    always appeared muffled (though I could still make them out) to my
    left ear even at high volumes. I didn't have this issue with
    normal headphones, where I could hear the words very clearly when
    the volume was high enough.

  These results paint a picture of comparison between the ears that is
  broadly similar to the picture painted by the single-frequency
  hearing test.

I also attempted earwax removal on December 30, 2024. I used Earwax MD
from Eosera, which has sodium bicarbonate as its active
ingredient. Based on online information, I gathered that sodium
bicarbonate should not be used too often, even though it is effective
at earwax removal, because its alkaline nature is counter to the
acidic environment needed for the ears to be protected from
infections. Therefore, my plan was to use it once and see how
effective it was, but not use it further until a more formal
evaluation.

The use of Earwax MD seems to have only removed a small amount of
earwax, and comparing pre- and post- hearing tests using normal
headphones did not show any difference (I did not have bone conduction
headphones at the time, so I don't have pre- and post- data with bone
conduction headphones).

> 1. Have you ever experienced a sudden (<24 hours) or rapid (over
> several weeks/months) change in your hearing? Have you noticed that
> your hearing seems to change/fluctuate?

On November 29, 2024, when I woke up, I felt a sense of compression in
my left ear and thought I might have hearing loss there.  I initially
attributed this to earwax buildup due to sleeping too long on my left
side. Since then, the hearing in my left ear seems to be consistently
worse than my right ear. I only formally started testing on December
17, 2024 (and followed up with tests every few days) with normal
headphones and the hearing in each ear has been consistent since then
(no progressive deterioration). I added testing with bone conduction
headphones on January 2, 2025, and results for bone conduction
headphones have also stayed stable. Unfortunately, I did not do any
at-home hearing tests prior to November 29 so I can't say for sure if
my hearing objectively got worse on that day, but prior to that I did
not subjectively experience imbalance in my headphones.

> 3. Do you have ear pressure/ fullness/ the sensation of being underwater?

Additional Comments:

Yes, intermittently in the left ear, and almost never in the right
ear. I felt this most strongly on November 29, 2024, when I woke up
and felt I had lost hearing in my left ear.

Occasionally (a few times a week), I sometimes find that when I am
chewing food, clearing my throat, or burping, there is a reverberation
to my left ear but none to my right ear.

Occasionally (a few times a week) I also think I hear brief clicking
noises in my left ear every few seconds, but they go away quickly.

None of these symptoms triggers instinctive emotions in me, but it may
be that I'm paying more attention to them now and they used to happen
earlier as well. However, the asymmetry between the ears seems clear.

> 8. Have you ever had surgery on your ear(s)? (If YES, please
> explain)

Additional Comments:

I had surgery in early 1990 as a young child. This was in response to
a diagnosis of bilateral maxillary sinusitis based on an ENT X-ray and
examination by an ENT specialist, with supporting evidence from a
pathology report. The surgery included both myringotomy (to drain
excess fluid from my middle ear) and adenoidectomy (to remove my
adenoids, that were causing the problem). Prior to the surgery, my
audiogram showed a hearing loss of about 40-45 dB in both ears and a
flat impedance curve (not much variation across
frequencies). Audiograms done after my surgery indicated that my
hearing had returned to normal.

I was able to get scans of records of the X-ray, pathology report, and
prescriptions for pre-surgery care, post-surgery care, and followup
care. I've assembled these into a PDF that I am attaching.

## Appointment

### Arrival at location

I arrived at the appointment location (Berkeley Hearing Center, 2748
San Pablo Avenue) at around 3:27 PM. I checked in with the front
desk. They checked me in to the appointment. I asked about the
fees. They said the standard hearing test is $250, but the cost will
depend on the exact procedure, and the audiologist will tell me what
the exact cost is expected to be.

As I was wearing a mask, the patient care coordinator doing the
check-in asked if I wanted the audiologist to also wear a mask. I said
that wouldn't be necessary.

At 3:28 PM, I was done with the check-in and sat down in the waiting area.

### Beginning of discussion with audiologist and decision to focus on earwax removal

Before beginning, the audiologist asked me if I wanted him to wear a
mask. I said no need.

I was initially called into the hearing test room. The audiologist
said he had gone through my intake form answers. He mentioned that he
had noticed that I had done a lot of at-home hearing tests. I gave him
the requested TL;DR. He then brought out the otoscope to examine my
ear.

After taking a look, he said that there's a lot of earwax. He said
that a single appointment can either do earwax removal or a hearing
test. The earwax removal would be $150 and the hearing test would be
$250. His sense was that earwax removal would likely address my
hearing issues.

Based on the information, I decided to do the earwax removal (from the
outer ear) in this appointment, then go home and do at-home hearing
tests, and then if I continued to have issues based on at-home hearing
test, to book an appointment for a hearing test.

I asked him a few followup questions prior to the start of earwax
removal.

Question: Did he see any asymmetry between the ears in earwax?

Answer (with some paraphrasing by me): He didn't see any obvious
discrepancy. Both ears had a lot of earwax. However, there could be
differences in terms of the exact location and pattern of the earwax
that could be causing differential effect on my hearing in the two
ears. The easiest way to find out would be to do the earwax removal
and see how it affects the hearing in the two ears.

Question: If the issue is purely earwax-related, could it cause issues
with hearing when using bone conduction headphones?

Answer (with some paraphrasing by me): While the effect of earwax on
bone conduction headphones is less than on normal headphones, there is
still some effect. So hearing even with bone conduction headphones is
expected to improve after earwax removal.

Question: Did he check for issues with fluid buildup in the middle ear?

Answer (with some paraphrasing by me): Testing of that sort would have
to be done in a followup hearing test appointment. It couldn't be done
right now because earwax was blocking the eardrum (that would need to
be tapped/probed to get evidence of fluid buildup in the middle ear).

### Preliminaries for earwax removal

Before starting earwax removal, the audiologist asked me to sign a
document giving my consent. In the document, I checked the box for
whether I had had ear surgery, and wrote in details (myringotomy for
bilateral maxillarly sinusitis) at his request.

He warned me that the process of earwax removal may be painful or
uncomfortable. He said there are three nerves around the ear:

* Cranial nerve VII (7), the facial nerve

* Cranial nerve VIII (8), the auditory nerve

* Cranial nerve X (10), the vague nerve, that controls cough and
  sneeze reflexes

In particular, he said that I might have an impulse to cough or
sneeze. I asked for confirmation that I could ask him to stop if I
felt pain. He said yes.

### Process of earwax removal

After taking an initial look, he said that irrigation would be
necessary to loosen the earwax enough to remove it. He brought a basin
to drain the liquid, that I had to hold under the ear while he blew
the water in and then drained the earwax.

He started with the right ear. The process for the right ear ended
with a large blob of earwax that he said was stuck against the eardrum.

He then proceeded to the left ear. The process here seemed to take
less time, but also caused me a bit more sudden shuddering. Not
painful overall though.

### Discussion regarding earwax removal

This discussion was spread between early on (prior to earwax removal)
and during and after earwax removal.

I mentioned that I had used sodium bicarbonate ear drops once in my
left ear, about a month after I started having hearing issues, and
that I felt no difference to my hearing between the before and
after. We discussed the use of ear drops in general.

His professional opinion was that while ear drops could work in some
cases, the key was to make sure to blow enough water for long enough
for the earwax to come out. Otherwise, while ear drops do soften the
earwax, it may end up just falling further in into the eardrum.

He recommended getting a professional ear cleaning periodically. The
standard recommendation was once a year, or once every 6 months if
being really proactive. Ear drops would be more hit and miss so he
didn't recommend them.

I asked him what the consequences were of letting the earwax build up
without getting it cleaned. He mentioned that one risk was that if
there was too much earwax buildup, then the removal process could be
more painful and lead to bleeding and discomfort. However, the
accumulation of earwax did not directly lead to permanent or
irreversible hearing loss -- removing the earwax should reverse any
hearing loss due to earwax.

I also asked what the factors were that drove earwax buildup. He said
it was mostly a mix of genetics and random factors, but some things
like using Q-tips or applying ear drops without adequate irrigation to
actually clear out the wax, could make things worse.

We also talked about the body's natural ability to clear out earwax,
since the ears still have the scales (not found elsewhere in the human
body) to transport the wax outward. Q-tips and ear drops without
adequate irrigation could reverse some of that motion, so he advised
against Q-tips and said ear drops were hit-and-miss.

Regarding the sodium bicarbonate, he said that that tended to create a
fizz and loosen the earwax but it often then went back down inside. It
wasn't totally clear if that had happened in my case (since I think he
was initially not clear that the ear drop use by me was only in the
left ear, so he may have attributed the earwax stuck to the eardrum in
the right ear to ear drop use).

### Post-removal subjective evaluation

As a formal hearing test was outside the scope of this appointment, he
asked me to informally assess how the earwax removal felt. He
mentioned that it may take a few hours for my ears to dry completely,
and for me to fully get the hearing benefits of the earwax removal. It
was also difficult for me to assess since my hearing loss wasn't
severe enough to make out except when using headphones, particularly
at low-volume settings.

He did try to speed up the drying process by blowing in my ear with
the ear syringe. It did help, but didn't fully dry my ears.

He asked me if I had gotten my headphones, and I said I hadn't. So I
said I'll do at-home testing later in the evening.

### Chart copy

I asked if I could get a record of the procedure. He said he'll have
the chart emailed to me once he has finished it. He also told the
patient care coordinator to make a note of this.

## Checkout process

After being done with the appointment, I went to the reception and
paid the $150. The patient care coordinator asked me if I want my
receipt printed or emailed. I asked for it to be emailed. I later
found the receipt in my email (or more specifically, a link in my
email taking me to the receipt). I downloaded the receipt.

## Journey back home and return home

As I was walking back home (with a stop at Berkeley Bowl) I noticed
gradually an increase in the perceived loudness of sounds. The effect
continued for the first 30-45 minutes. Some of the things I noticed
were that traffic seemed louder than usual, door closing was louder
than usual, and toilet flush and water running seemed louder than
usual.

I deferred formal at-home testing until after dinner. I later did this
testing, as recorded
[here](../2024/2024-11-29-reduced-hearing-in-left-ear.md#conclusion-on-2025-01-15). The
conclusion of the testing was that hearing in my left ear seemed to
have improved a lot, but there wasn't clear improvement in the right
ear. The ears do seem to have different strengths in terms of
frequencies. Interestingly, both air conduction and bone conduction
tell similar stories now in terms of the relative strengths of the
ears.

Overall, hearing in both ears was now at an acceptable level,
leading me to consider the "reduced hearing in left ear" incident
closed.
