# 2025 sleep tracker

This document does not include details of my sleep time, waking-up
time, and sleep duration on a daily basis (I am starting to keep those
details in private logs starting 2024-10-11).

Rather, this document focuses on notable cases, particularly:

* Cases where I slept less than 7 hours or more than 10 hours (as
  measured in the time between when I went to bed and the time I woke
  up, rather than actual sleep time); for cases where I slept between
  9 and 10 hours, I may optionally record but will skip recording if
  this is during winter where temperatures are generally lower and
  there is often a need for additional sleep

* Cases where I had a particularly fitful or interrupted sleep

* Cases where I felt very sleepy and lethargic before my
  1-hour-notice-to-sleep time, outside of known cases of timezone
  adjustment (within the expected timeframe for such adjustment)

* Cases where I went to sleep less than 3 hours after finishing my
  last meal

* Optionally, cases where I went to bed more than 30 minute after the
  target time by which I need to get into bed (though I may not always
  record such cases)

I plan to start recording starting 2024-10-11. I might also write
separate documents on more complex incidents, but for cases where it's
just a matter of one of the above and does not spill over into other
related issues, I will just note it here.

## 2025-01-22 to 2025-01-23: 2:30 AM to 8:41 AM

This was an interesting situation. I break it down into three parts:

* Trigger and background factors for sleeping late
* Trigger and background facors for waking up early (i.e., without completing 7 hours)

### Trigger and background factors for sleeping late

I did soaking of lentils and was on track to have finished the
recording of said soaking at around 12:40 AM. My plan was to get into
bed a few minutes after that and then go to sleep within about 10
minutes of getting into bed. All in all, if things had gone according
to plan, I would have gone to sleep by 1 AM.

However, when I was running make commands on the repo, I ran into
unexpected issues. Diagnosing these issues ended up taking a while. At
this point, it was a judgment call. Nothing here was truly urgent, but
I did not want to go to sleep with this issue unresolved, so I
continued working on it until finally resolving it and taking followup
documentation steps. This was definitely a choice; I could have chosen
to go to sleep and tackle this the next day, at the cost of a slight
stress of unresolved stuff (I already have many unresolved threads,
but this one felt like it was a higher degree of urgency than the rest
because it gets to the integrity of my setup).

I was finished shortly before 2 AM, but then saw an incoming pull
request from a colleague, so spent a little time on it. Then I did my
final wrap-up by around 2:20 AM. Finally, I headed into bed and my
time of going to sleep was 2:30 AM.

#### Background factors that led to the tech issue

The background factor was that I was doing a bunch of work-related
updates and (perhaps unwisely) also decided to make equivalent
personal updates that ended up having unintended effects on my
personal setup. The exact thing was hard to predict, but I could have
been more proactive in terms of thinking of unexpected implications of
updates, and tested earlier in the day. I also knew (from a colleague)
that this specific issue can happen at some point as a result of
updates, so I had it in the back of my mind, but didn't think it would
happen to me now.

### Trigger and background factors for waking up early (relative to sleep time)

The trigger for waking up early was strong bowel pressure. Normally, I
wake up without strong bowel pressure and the develop bowel pressue
after a few minutes of being seated. However, in this case, my bowel
pressure was strong enough that I felt I need to get up to get ready
for a bowel movement.

Some of the background factors involved in the waking-up time were:

* I had been moving my waking up time to earlier over the past few
  days, in preparation for [blood tests the previous
  day](2025-01-22-blood-tests.md). So, I was primed to naturally wake
  up around this time, though my actual waking-up time was a bit early
  even considering that.

* I needed to be up by about an hour later than the time I woke up,
  for a work meeting. Although I still had time, I had primed my body
  to "be up sooner" than my full sleep cycle would require.

* I did finish my meal yesterday relatively early (8:07 PM) which
  would be consistent with this waking-up time. The early meal was a
  result of the general shifting of my schedule to earlier, as well as
  other aspects of the way yesterday's schedule worked after the blood
  tests.

* It was a warmer early morning indoors than the past few days. For
  instance, yesterday, the temperature was about 53F shortly after I
  woke up yesterday (temperature was recorded at 9:03 AM). In
  contrast, today the indoor temperature was about 58F at around 8:34
  AM, I few minutes before I officially woke up.

* Because of sleeping late, I ended up doing a second urination at
  2:21 AM before going to sleep. As a result, My "mid-sleep" urination
  happened late at 8:28 AM (normally it happens between 6 AM and 7
  AM). So when I got back from mid-sleep urination, in light of it
  being late and warm and just an hour to waking up, I ended up
  getting up just a few minutes later.

### Update on the next night's sleep

Going from 2025-01-23 to 2025-01-24, I had a little extra sleep that
probably made up somewhat for the reduced sleep on this night. I went
to sleep at 1:21 AM and woke up at 10:49 AM (my first alarm had been
set for 10:45 AM, and I was semi-awake when it triggered; if it hadn't
been for the alarm, I would likely have stayed in bed about 10-15
minutes more). This is about 9.5 hours of sleep, which likely makes up
a large portion of the reduced sleep.

## 2025-01-27 to 2025-01-28: 3:42 AM to 11:39 AM, and following days

This was a case where I somewhat deliberately stayed up late because I
really wanted to finish some travel planning work that I had not been
able to get enough of a continuous stretch of time for during the day
(due to things being busy with work and a heavy cyclic personal
chores load). The work stretched a little longer than ideal, but it
was within my range of expectations. I also did this knowing that I
did not have any obligation to wake up early the next day.

I went to sleep around 3:42 AM and updated my alarms to wake me up at
11:30 AM and 11:45 AM. My sleep pattern seemed close to normal, just
shifted a few hours. I was semi-awake at the time of the first alarm
at 11:30 AM, and got out of bed at 11:39 AM.

For comparison, these days, I typically go to sleep some time between
12:30 AM and 1:30 AM (and almost always between 12 AM and 2 AM) and
wake up some time between 9 AM and 11 AM.

Overall, the duration of sleep was close to typical (almost 8
hours). The quality was also typical, maybe a bit better because there
was better temperature minimum alignment with the environment.

One concern with this late-shifted sleep is missing out on some of the
timing-specific early phases of sleep (where the circadian rhythm is
based on typical sleep time rather than when I actually sleep) so I
shouldn't sleep much later than my usual time too often. Of course,
this wouldn't be a concern if I always slept this late, but that's not
an option due to the other concern below.

The other concern is social obligations, including meetings and alerts
related to the day job as well as things happening in the physical
environment (house and building repairs), some of which may not be
announced in advance. There is a general expectation of being awake
after 9 AM or at least by 10 AM.

The conclusion is that while this is fine to do once in a while, my
goal should be to pull back to a normal sleep schedule, skipping daily
activities on the next day if necessary to achieve that.

### Next few days

It took me a few days to return to a normal-ish cycle.

* 2025-01-28 to 2025-01-29: 2:39 AM to 11:06 AM. The bottleneck in
  this case was a mix of potatoes prep for second meal taking a long
  time, and doing some work stuff that had continuity benefits
  (causing a delay in starting potatoes prep). I also made a point of
  maintaining usual gaps and not skipping exercise; if I were more
  particular about getting back to a regular sleep cycle sooner, I
  would have shortened gaps, skipped exercise, or deferred the work
  item with continuity benefits.

* 2025-01-29 to 2025-01-30: 1:58 AM to 9:46 AM. The bottleneck was
  delays in having my first meal, which were again due to running into
  some work stuff that needed continuous time early in my day. I
  finished my first meal at 5:19 PM. However, I shortened the
  inter-meal gap and started my second meal at 8:46 PM, which allowed
  me to still go to sleep earlier than the previous day. I ended up
  waking with the alarm (set for 9:45 AM) due to a work meeting at
  10:30 AM.

* 2025-01-30 to 2025-01-31: 1 AM to 10:28 AM. The early sleep time
  marks my return to normalcy. The time of waking up, though late, was
  not constrained by any work meetings or other obligations, and the
  long sleep duration reflects the cold weather. Overall, I feel like
  I am back on track sleep-wise, so this incident is closed.

## 2025-02-06: interrupted sleep, failed bowel movement

In the recent past, it's been very cold in the mornings, and that has
meant waking up late. For instance, going from Tuesday 2025-02-04 to
Wednesday 2025-02-05, I went to sleep at 1:51 AM and woke up at 11:21
AM, to an indoor temperature of 55 degrees Fahrenheit. When I went to
urinate at 7:55 AM mid-sleep, the indoor temperature was 51 degrees
Fahrenheit.

I needed to wake up by around 9:45 AM on Thursday 2025-02-06 for a
work meeting at 10:30 AM. In order to achieve this after waking up
late on Wednesday, I skipped exercise. I ended up going to sleep at
1:29 AM and set alarms for 9:45 AM and 10 AM, which would give me
about 8 hours 15 minutes to my first alarm time. While not ideal, this
amount of sleep is generally (in normal weather) sufficient for me to
perform okay. Falling asleep took a little longer than usual but not by
much (maybe about 10 to 15 minutes more than usual?).

However, an alert went off at 9:16 AM, waking me up mid-dream. After
that, I stayed in bed for a bit, but knowing that I would need to wake
up shortly anyway, I didn't go back fully to sleep, and I ended up
getting out of bed and formally waking up at 9:30 AM. The indoor
temperature I recorded at 9:50 AM was 56 degrees Fahrenheit.

While I would normally develop a strong bowel movement urge within 20
to 40 minutes after waking up, I hadn''t developed any clear urge by
10:07 AM when I went for bowel movement to try it before the
meeting. I returned at 10:28 AM from an unsuccessful bowel movement. I
urinated quite a bit as part of the bowel movement. I blame
insufficient sleep and the acute interruption of sleep by the alert;
although on paper my sleep duration of 8 hour 1 minute is fine, it''s
too little in the context of winter.

### Actions taken for the future

I changed the "business hours" for some of the alerting services I am
on to start at 10 AM for the time being, while setting a reminder to
move them back to 9 AM after a few weeks.

I made a few updates to the [best practices around
sleep](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-sleep.md), adjusting
thresholds for cold winter days. See
[here](https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/commit/1a7f4242543d42d1185ac16839d9cecbfd8fdd57).

### Recovery the next day (Friday 2025-02-07)

Unfortunately, I wasn't able to sleep extra the next day (Friday
2025-02-07), because the strong bowel pressure worked to wake me up. I
went to sleep at 2:03 AM, got up mid-sleep to urinate at 8:46 AM, and
then formally woke up at 9:29 AM, so I got a little under 7.5 hours of
sleep. On the plus side, the indoor temperature was higher, so I
didn't have that much of a need to sleep in.

I did have a larger bowel movement and got the sense of having caught
up after yesterday's failed bowel movement.

Overall, I felt fine and not too sleep-deprived, but perhaps not as
fully refreshed as I might have with some extra sleep.
