# 2025-01-22: blood tests

See [here](2025-blood-test-plans-round-1.md) for details on what I am
getting tested as well as the booking process. This document is
focused on the actual blood draw and the preparatory and recovery
steps.

## 2025-01-15: email received notifying me of the appointment location being closed

On 2025-01-15, in the evening, I received an email from LabCorp
notifying me that the 3000 Colby St location was closed until
mid-February. My plan is to go to the 3100 San Pablo Ave
location. Unfortunately, it's too late to book an appointment with the
location, so my plan is to try a walk-in, because an appointment for a
later date won't work with my schedule. If I am unable to get a blood
draw at the location on that date, I will likely book an appointment
some time later (likely mid-March or so) at the 3000 Colby St
location, which will likely be open by that time.

## Preparatory steps

### 2025-01-20 (two days prior): pause of all supplements

Starting Monday 2025-01-20, I paused all supplements.

### 2025-01-20 evening: weather check

I'd been monitoring the weather forecast over the past few days and
knew that rain on the day of the blood tests was unlikely. I did an
official check on 2025-01-20 around 5:30 PM, by which time we were
within the 48-hour window where weather forecasts are reasonably
accurate. The probability of rain over the time period was shown as 0%
and the forecasted temperature was not too low (56 degrees Fahrenheit
at 11 AM).

### 2025-01-21: skipping of all exercises except balance exercises

On Tuesday 2025-01-21, in preparation for the next day's blood draw, I
skipped all exercises except balance exercises
(standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed and
standing-on-toes-with-eyes-closed).

### 2025-01-21: early end to dinner

I finished dinner at 8:27 PM. I had a few crumbs and sips during the
cleaning process, with the last such sip at around 9 PM, but for
"fasting" purposes the dinner can be considered to have finished at
8:27 PM.

### 2025-01-21: packing / prep

I did packing / prep at around 10 PM. This included packing the
requisition form (one signed copy and two unsigned copies) as well as
a black pen. I also streamlined some other elements so as to be able
to leave more quickly the next morning for the blood tests.
