# 2025 exercise tracker

## 2025-01-01: at-home jogging

I did at-home jogging on 2025-01-01. The rest of my exercise proceeded
normally.

## 2025-01-02: skipped exercise due to call with work colleagues

I skipped all exercise due to a call with work colleagues that used up
the time I would normally exercise.

## 2025-01-03 and 2025-01-04: at-home jogging

I did at-home jogging on 2025-01-03 and 2025-01-04. The rest of my
exercise proceeded normally. On both days, this was due to it being
quite cold and my desire to finish jogging soon rather than wait till
later in the day when it would be slightly warmer.

On 2025-01-05, I returned to jogging outside.

## 2025-01-06: abridged at-home jogging and skipped dead hang / pull-ups

On Monday 2025-01-06, I did abridged at-home jogging primarily due to
time constraints (about half the usual length). I also skipped dead
hang and pull-ups, also due to time constraints.

## 2025-01-09: skipping all exercise due to general fatigue plus timing constraints

On 2025-01-09, I skipped exercise due to a mix of general fatigue and
timing constraints. I had stayed up late the previous day, got to bed
late, woke up late, and had a somewhat busy morning. I didn't want to
delay eating too much and I wanted to reset to an earlier time, and
going out to exercise would have delayed things quite a bit.

I was also generally fatigued from the past few hectic days, and also
slightly underslept, and felt that skipping exercise would help me
recover more quickly.

I also have a lot of work to do, and skipping exercise could save me
valuable time and help me get more on top of things.

## 2025-01-12: skipping all exercise due to time crunch for the day (due to sleep time adjustment needed)

Primarily due to a large cyclic personal chores load, I went to sleep
late on 2025-01-11 (around 3 AM), and correspondingly got up late on
the morning of 2025-01-12 (around 11 AM). This would not normally be a
problem, but I need to be up by 9 AM on 2025-01-13 to be ready for
work meetings, which means I effectively have 2 hours less for
2025-01-12. Skipping exercise is the prudent course to achieve this
(because exercise not only directly costs time but also imposes an
additional 1-hour delay on the meal start time).

This might also be generally helpful considering that I am generally
time-squeezed these days.
