# Best practices around mouth bites

This document includes best practices around mouth bites. I seem to
have had about 3-4 mouth bites a year with at least 1 per year leading
to an injury that lasted a week or more (the rest often heal within
less than a day). Without adequate care, or if the injury happens to
be serious, I might experience pain with eating, rinsing, and flossing
for 3-4 days at the peak of the pain.

## Prevention

### Chew food well and carefully

It's important to chew food well and carefully, and not in a hurry and
not to load too much food. With a lot of food in the mouth, I might
miss my mark when chewing or biting, causing the teeth to injure the
tongue, lips, or cheek.

### Be particularly careful around hard, sharp food such as walnuts

In addition to teeth injuring the mouth, the sharp edges of walnuts
have the potential to injure the mouth as well.

### Do a tongue probe after post-meal rinsing/flossing and visually examine any sensitive or swollen areas

Some injuries are initially very minor, so they don't really register
with me, but they can get aggravated without adequate precaution. So,
always do a tongue probe after post-meal rinsing/flossing. If the
tongue probe reveals anything, or I experienced any sensitivity during
eating, rinsing, or flossing, visually examine the area and take notes
if I notice any swelling or any color gradient.

## After a slight injury before its extent is clear

### Avoid hard and intense foods for two days

If I either experience sensitivity / soreness in an area, feel a
swelling with my tongue, or see a swelling or color gradient with my
eyes, avoid hard and intense foods for two days while I continue to
monitor the area. This is a precautionary measure. For moe context,
see [best practices around intense and hard food consumption's section
on mouth
issues](best-practices-around-intense-and-hard-food-consumption.md#after-mouth-issues).

### Do more visual and probe checks (while still limiting to fewer than ten per day and not continously probing with tongue or touching with fingers)

In addition to post-meal probes, do probes and visual checks at these times:

* Thrice a day, after brushing teeth
* Twice a day, *before* starting each meal
* Up to three more times a day in response to any changes in sensation

Outside of these probes, do not touch the area with my tongue, to the
extent I can avoid doing so.

Document the findings of these probes so that I can paint a clear
picture of the evolution of the issue.

### Make sure I'm drinking enough water

Dry mouth can exacerbate issues, so be particularly careful to drink enough water.

### Make sure there is a coating of saliva over the stuff whenever possible

A coating of saliva plays a protective role and reduces the
sensations, while perhaps helping with recovery.

## Once there is swelling or redness

### In case of pain or smarting, consider additional rounds of saltwater rinsing

While normally, one saltwater rinse after each meal is sufficient, in
case of pain or smarting, consider one or two additional rounds (total
three or four a day). However, to reduce smarting, do it slowly and
with smaller quantities each time, and cool things down after that. It
may take about 5-10 minutes to recover from the saltwater rinse.

If there's only slight swelling and redness and thought direction,
with no pain, the normal saltwater rinsing routine is fine -- just
make sure not to miss it.

### Avoid intense and hard foods

To be safe, I should pause consumption of sauerkraut, kimchi, and walnuts,
until at least two days after any of these is true:

* I have just injured my mouth and it's not totally clear how bad the
  issue is yet.

* I can still feel a swelling when probing with my tongue or see it in
  the mirror (so basically I need at least two days without being able
  to feel it, with the exception of walnuts).

* I feel pain or smarting when eating, flossing, rinsing, or brushing.

* My thoughts are frequently directed to the area, even if I don't
  feel any pain.

For walnuts, I can experimentally resume after two days of initial
pain or swelling, even if the swelling continues, as long as I only
feel it on probing or visually, and do not experience thought
direction. However, I should do so only if I am confident of being
able to consume the walnuts without having them irritate that part of
the mouth. If I have swelling in multiple sites in a way that it
raises the risk of walnut consumption being in touch with at least one
of the sites, I should not resume walnut consumption until two days
after I can no longer feel the swelling.

### Continue other practices of preceding section

* Continue to make sure to drink enough water

* Continue to make sure to coat with saliva

* Continue to make sure to do the additional probes and visual checks
