# Best practices around adding a topical treatment protocol

This is for topical treatments on the skin. These are generally to
address skin and hair conditions, such as hair loss or dry skin.

This is for treatments that are stronger than hand lotion and hand
sanitizer, though some of the principles apply even to hand lotion and
hand sanitizer.

## Get dosage and frequency information, as well as the impact of missed doses

Get information on:

* If there are different strengths and formulations, the difference
  between them

* Expected dose range

* Frequency range

* Minimum and maximum dose gap

* Impact of missing a dose -- is it advisable to double-dose, or just
  contine with other doses regularly?

* Any dependence or tolerance effects that are known

## Get timing and state information

### Timing: how long to wait before any further stuff on the relevant skin

For instance, a shower or bath that would wash over all skin. Or some
other activity that is especially likely to wash or interact with the
specific area of skin to which the topical application happened (such
as hand washing or washing dishes would have on my hands, or shaving
would have on my face).

Generally, a gap of at least 15 minutes between a topical application
and any further activity that might touch on the relevant skin is
expected. However, for some topical applications, the recommended gap
may be longer. Make sure to set a routine where the recommended gap is
met by default, and in any case, try to log the time of the topical
application so that I can take care to adhere to it.

Also, find out the consequences of not adhering to the gap. If the
consequence is just lower efficacy, that's often okay in case of
unexpected situations. If the consequence is some adverse consequence
that would be worse than not applying the topical treatment at all, I
should be aware of this and pay more attention to timing.

#### Sweat

Another consideration is sweat during exercise or in hot weather. For
topical treatments that are very sensitive to interference from
moisture, even sweat during exercise or in hot weather can be
sufficient to interfer. In such cases, I should time to make sure it's
not right before exercise and that it's being done during the cooler
hours on days when it is expected to behot.

#### Brushing hair

For topical applications on the scalp, investigate the gap to brushing
hair. Unless otherwise specified, a gap of 15 minutes should be enough.

### State prior to application

* Moisture: How important is it for the relevant area of skin to be
  dry (no recent water application and not much sweat)? This might
  mean that the application should not be done immediately *after*
  exercise or washing of the area.

## Get information on potential risks of leakage to other areas as well as associated precautions

### Eyes

Any topical application in or around the face, particularly above the
eyes, should only be done after I have investigated the impact of a
leakage of some of the applied material into the eyes. I should always
do such application in front of the mirror and near a sink and be
prepared to wash thoroughly in case any of it gets into the eyes.

### Hands

If the topical application isn't intended for the hands themselves,
investigate the impact of having any of it left on the hands. The
default procedure is a hospital-style handwashing before and after
application. However, some traces may still be left, so investigate
the impact and consider a second round of handwashing.

If there are minor cuts on one hand, consider how the topical
application can be done so that that hand is not in contact with the
material being applied. In other words, only use the other hand.

### Other parts of the skin

If the topical application is associated with specific parts of the
skin, investigate the impact of it leaking to other parts of the skin,
and also how to detect and address this.

## Mechanism and interactions with my profile and other drugs

Make sure to thoroughly understand the mechanism of action of the
treatment. Then, look into the following:

* Interaction with my profile: For instance, consider the expected
  impact on blood pressure and heart rate in light of my curent blood
  pressure and heart rate.

* Interaction with other treatements, oral and topical: This might
  involve looking up drug-drug interactions.
