# Best practices around muscle strain

This document puts together best practices around muscle strain. The
context is that muscle strain often happens and can lead both directly
to pain and to skin wounds. Dealing with the associated skin wounds is
covered under [best practices around skin
wounds](best-practices-around-skin-wounds.md).

## Prevention

### Muscle strain during exercise

During exercise, part of the goal is to subject the muscles to more
strain. The key is to make sure that I don't put extraordinary levels
of strain that damage rather than strengthen the muscle over the
medium term, and also that I don't strain muscles that I don't intend
to.

The following situations are ones I should be particularly cautious of:

* Trying higher peak loads than I have previously been doing
  regularly. For instance, for the [2024-09-27 minor inflammation of
  lower neck](2024-09-27-onward-minor-inflammation-of-lower-neck.md),
  I suspect this to be due to muscle strain from trying hard with the
  200 lb hand gripper.

* Doing significantly more repetitions, or longer durations of hold,
  than I normally do. Think something like double or more. Increases
  of up to 40% from my regular level should generally not cause muscle
  strain if I feel fine doing them.

* Exercising during times when I am significantly more fatigued than
  usual, i.e., pushing through exercise.

* Exercising after a vaccine, blood draw, or other event that is
  likely to have affected the muscles being exercised (even if I don't
  feel system-level fatigue).

### Muscle strain from regular activity

#### Carrying heavy things with a thin surface of contact

I need to be particularly careful when carrying heavy loads with thin
handles (string or rope) such as grocery bags or laundry bags. One
mistake I have made at times is to put the weight of the handle
entirely on my PIP joint, that is not meant to handle heavy loads for
extended durations.

Instead, it's better to have the weight go on the wrist, and move it
around so that the thin region of contact doesn't tax the same part of
the hand for an extended period of time. The PIP joint should be used
only intermittently.

When possible, alternate between hands (if both hands are carrying
things of different weight, switch the weight around between the
hands). If possible, rest and relax each hand for a few seconds during
the journey.

#### Sleep at night

In cold times, I may put my hand under my body and put a lot of body
weight on the hand. This, in addition to the direct effect of the
cold, may strain the muscles of the hand. Posture-wise, I should make
sure that the weight is spread over a large area.

## Dealing with muscle strain

### Reduce further muscle strain

Once there is evidence of some degree of muscle strain, I need to up
the level of precaution around the involved muscles. This might entail
reducing the peak strength, hold duration, or number of repetitions of
exercises.

### Deal with potential skin wounds

Muscle strain often leads to skin wounds by stretching the skin. I
should take care to apply additionl vaseline per the [best practices
around skin wounds](best-practices-around-skin-wounds.md).
