# Best practices around blood test decisioning

## Retest interval decisioning

### Less than 3 months in case of diagnostic usefulness for an ongoing health issue (with symptoms) or imminent risk of health issue

In case the test reading is diagnostically useful for an ongoing
health issue (with symptoms) or a potentially imminent one (for
instance, a chronic or life-threatening condition with a probability
greater than 10% over the next two years) I should get retested within
the next 3 months, after immediately taking steps to improve the
underlying condition.

### 3-6 months for readings where the level is concerning and I don't yet have a trend of improvement at a fast enough pace

If the level of the reading is concerning (for instance, outside the
recommended range) I should implement changes to start improving the
reading, if I haven't already. It may be the case that I already
implemented changes to start improving the reading, but they haven't
yet borne fruit, and that is expected (for instance, I started the
improvements just two weeks prior to the test).

If I have clear evidence (for instance, a trendline from previous
readings) that I am on track to improving the reading at a sufficient
pace, I can proceed to the next case (6 to 12 months).

In other cases, the ideal retest interval is 3 to 6 months, assuming
the improvements are expected to show up, either to completely fix the
level, or at least show a clear trend of improvement.

### 6 to 12 months for readings where the level is concerning but the trendline is promising, or the trend is concerning but the level is okay

If the level of the reading is concerning but the trendline is good
(for instance, I expect to get to a good level in 1-2 years) retesting
at the 6-12 month is fine.

Similarly, if the level of the reading is fine, but the trendline is
concerning (for instance, it's moving from a good level to a
borderline level) I should get retested in 6-12 months to confirm that
that concerning trendline does not continue.

### 12 to 24 months (1 to 2 years) for readings where there is nothing concerning about the level and trendline, but it's either a cheap high-value test I either lack data or have other risk factors

For some tests that are cheap and high-value, testing every 12 to 24
months may make sense. Examples include the comprehensive metabolic
panel (CMP) and complete blood count (CBC). Although unlikely to flag
issues except during transient infections or diet changes, these tests
are so cheap and provide so much value for the cost that it really
doesn't hurt much to do then every 12 to 24 months.

For tests where this is my first reading, or the previous reading was
a really long time ago (for instance, more than 10 years ago), it is a
good idea to get retested within 12 to 24 months to get confirmation,
even if the reading seems fine.

Also, for any tests in areas where I have risk factors that increase
the chances of my trendline going bad, and the initial bad trendline
doesn't generate any obvious symptoms, getting retested within 12 to
24 months is a good idea.

### 24 to 48 months (2 to 4 years) for most tests that are good to do

For the majority of tests that are good to do, a period of 24 to 48
months is reasonable. This applies to tests where I have a decent
level, a decent trendline across multiple readings, and no significant
risk factors.

## Basic and advanced versions of a test

An example here is the lipid profile (the basic version of the test)
versus NMR LipoProfile + IR Markers + Graph (the advanced version of
the test).

My current thinking is to go for the advanced version at least once to
get a baseline (and to flag any blind spots of the basic version) and
then after that if I feel like the basic version reasonably accurately
characterizes the situation, to stick with the basic version. I may,
however, continue to do the advanced version occasionally, every 4 to
8 years, to continue to get an updated baseline of the advanced
version's data.
