# Best practices around dental cleaning appointments

## Note the appointment date and time

I generally book my dental cleaning appointment as part of the
previous dental cleaning appointment, and the usual interval is 27
weeks. My booking preference is Wednesday 1 PM.

Note the appointment date and time in the notes for the previous
appointment, and also put a calendar reminder. Also, check the two
weeks before and after it just to make sure that I don't have anything
else that could create a conflict, such as travel, other medical
appointments, vaccines, or blood tests.

The calendar reminder should start two hours prior to the appointment
start time and then continue to three hours after the appointment end
time. Invite my work email account so that the time is blocked on my
work calendar as well.

## Calendar reminders around the event

### Reminder to review maintenance windows, work calendar events, and Slack alert for work stuff (two weeks prior) -- put on work calendar

* Maintenance windows for work alerts where I'm primary: I can set
  these up when the appointment time is confirmed (usually six months
  prior) but should review two weeks prior as there may be changes to
  the list of affected services. Generally, set the maintenance window
  to start two hours prior to the start and end five hours after the
  end.

* Overrides for me for services where I rotate with others: I should
  probably handle these about two weeks prior to the appointment. Try
  for the override to be a full-day override covering at least two
  hours prior to the start and four hours after the end of the appointment.

* Work calendar events and Slack reminders: At the two-week-prior
  mark, I should clear out as much as possible, and then after that be
  particularly careful in the 2-3 days leading up to the appointment
  to keep that day clear.

### Reminder to probe and be more careful around food consumption starting nine days before the appointment

While the full stoppage should only happen three days befoer the
appointment (see later) it's important to raise my level of caution
starting around nine days before the appointment. This elevated
caution means paying particular attention to the consumption of hot,
spicy, and acidic foods, and probing around to find any sensitive
areas in my mouth.

### Cancellation consideration for three business days before the appointment

There is a $50 charge for cancelling less than three business days
prior to the appointment, so I should set a calendar reminder to
consider whether to cancel or reschedule while I can still do so for
free. In particular, other related stuff such as vaccines, blood
tests, or travel plans may come up.

Some of the things to consider:

* Do I have any kind of injuries in my mouth that I expect to not
  represent chronic problems but rather temporary injuries?
  Rescheduling to a week later makes sense in such cases.

* Am I feeling unwell, for instance, digestive issues, minor cold,
  sniffling, etc.? In such cases, if there is an expected trajectory
  of getting better, delaying by 1-2 weeks, based on the expected
  trajectory, would be desirable.

* Look carefully in my calendar for the next few weeks and make sure
  there's nothing of concern in the two weeks ahead of the dental
  cleaning appointment.

### Shopping reminder for two days prior to the appointment

Set up a reminder for a grocery shopping trip for the evening two days
before the dental cleaning appointment. It's good to have groceries
shopped for ahead of the appointment if possible.

### Reminder to pause consumption of sauerkraut, walnuts, lemons, and spicy foods

* Reminder for six days prior to the appointment to pause consumption
  of sauerkraut, kimchi, walnuts, and spicy foods. This reduces the
  risk of injury in the cheek and gum area that might cause more pain
  during the dental cleaning process. Any food prep during this time
  should not include cayenne pepper. I should also avoid outside food.

  Also, when consuming recently prepared hot food, I should make sure
  to mix it with cooler liquid foods so that the hottest temperature
  in my mouth isn't too high (this is a good practice in general but I
  should be particularly careful in the run-up to a dental cleaning
  appointment.

  Consume a vegan probiotic yogurt instead of sauerkraut over that
  time period.

* Reminder for the day after the appointment to resume consumption of
  walnuts.

* Reminder for three days after the appointment to resume consumption
  of sauerkraut, with a note to delay if I'm experiencing excess
  salivation.

### Reminder to examine teeth with the dental mirror and take photos with the intraoral camera two days ago

Set a reminder for two days prior to the dental cleaning for the following:

First, spend some time reviewing all back teeth with the dental
mirror.

Use the intraoral camera to take photos of all parts of the
teeth. Upload the photos to Google Drive and GitHub. Review them
closely and update the notes associated with the dental cleaning
appointment.

### Reminder to do normal face shaving 1 or 2 days prior to appointment and discard razor used

I don't want to be in a situation where I have a lot of face shaving
to do the morning of the appointment, so I should make sure not to
skip normal face shaving 1 or 2 days prior. Also, discard the razor when done so that I have a fresh razor for the shaving the morning of the appointment.

### Reminder to do thorough face shaving between 3 and 6 hours prior to the appointment (using a new razor)

Shave slowly and thoroughly. Be particularly thorough and careful in
the area above and below the lips.

### Reminder to skip exercise on the day of the appointment

This is to conserve time and energy for the appointment.

### Reminder to keep fermentable food consumption to a minimum on the morning of the appointment

In particular, this includes peas and lentils. Sauerkraut and kimchi I
have already stopped by this point. The goal is to reduce the risk of
flatulence and abdominal discomfort during the dental cleaning
process. My target threshold is more strict (I want to avoid abdominal
discomfort more completely) given the nature of the process and the
extended confinement.

### Packing / prep reminder for the night before the appointment

Anything I need to get ready for the dental cleaning should ideally be
handled the previous night, so that even if I'm in a rush I don't miss
doing it. This includes any planning for additional things I hope to
do in the trip after the appointment.

### Reminder to take photos and examine with a dental mirror the evening of the appointment

Make sure to examine my teeth with a dental mirror and also take
photos before I go to sleep after the appointment. Exactly when I do
it depends on what else I have going on in the day.

### Reminder to drink plenty of water and keep my talking load low for the two days after the appointment (to minimize and better address the risk of excess salivation)

I should closely monitor my saliva levels for the two days after the
appointment.

Drinking plenty of water helps address the risk of dry mouth.

Keeping my talking load low may help reduce excess salivation and also
reduce the inconvenience imposed by excess salivation.

### Reminder to set reminders for the next dental cleaning appointment

Set a reminder for the evening of the dental cleaning appointment to
set calendar reminders for the next dental cleaning appointment
following this doc.

## Things to keep in mind during the appointment

* Make sure I know the signal to use with the hygienist to communicate
  if I have pain or need the cleaning to be stopped or paused.

* Don't keep the mouth open too wide for too long. In particular,
  close it for brief intervals in between when the hygienist is not
  working on the mouth. Keeping the mouth open for too long can
  trigger excess salivation the next day.
