# Best practices around saliva collection for genetic testing

These best practices were first documented on Thursday 2024-10-31 as
part of the process of sample collection for 23andMe.

## Prior research

### Google around and collect information on expected durations and failure modes

Stuff to learn:

* How much saliva is to be collected and how long does it take?

* How much shaking should be done during the saliva collection
  process?

* How much shaking should be done after the saliva collection process?

[This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4VSixMVb-U) provides
some insight into the collection process (start around 4:00). The
presenter says he took about 10 minutes and overfilled due to the
bubbles. So it's important to spit in small increments, wait for
bubbles to settle, and then proceed.

## Drink a decent amount of water and note the time

There will be a recommended gap (30 minutes for 23andMe) between the
last time of drinking water and the start of sample collection. It is
important to note the time of last drinking water. Also, drink a
decent quantity of water (not a lot, but more than a couple of sips)
to last me through the collection process and increase the chances and
ease of collecting sufficient saliva.

## Before opening the packet: get the workstation ready

### Put keyboard cover on laptop

Make sure the laptop keyboard has a keyboard cover on it before
opening the kit near the laptop. Also put a separate cover on the
fingerprint/power key if applicable.

### Get paper towels to form a base on whoch the packet can be opened.

This is to make sure that if there is any leakage it hits the paper
towels first and minimizes the mess on the table.

### Get a few face tissues handy

Keep these handy on the table nearby for use to easily wipe stuff including my face or the kit if there is any leakage.

## Open the packet and get ready

### When opening the packet: make sure not to discard anything

As different parts of the packet may be used for the return process,
do not discard anything.

### Keep a margin of a few inches between the thing being opened and the edge of the table

This is so that if I lose control, it still lands on the table. Also,
make sure that I am blocking the area in front of it so that even if
it falls, it lands in my lap.

### Carefully read through all the instructions (including post-spit steps) and make sure I can identify the relevant pieces

In addition to identifying the pieces, pay close attention to the
sequence of operations, as it may be hard to read and follow
instructions once I start the saliva collection.

### Make sure not to put any materials in the box to be used for returns, until I am ready to pack

This is to avoid any staining or damage particularly from the
liquids. See note later about the removable funnel cap staining the
lower inside of the box.

## Some additional gotchas noted in the 23andMe collection process

### Saliva collection

My first round of saliva collection (started about 39 minutes after I
last drank water) took about a minute and was very bubble-free, but it
seemed to include some gooey material that I was worried was some sort
of contamination (it may have beem mucus or some food particle reflux
or something from the tissues I was using to wipe my mouth during the
process). To be safe, I poured it off and re-collected. However, this
second time the collection took about 3 minutes and did have a fair
amount of bubbles. I tried draining off the bubbles on top, but didn't
succeed, and instead drained the saliva below the bubbles to some
extent, so I had to fill again. This time I made sure to get all the
non-bubble stuff right to the line. Overall, my collection process
took about 6-8 minutes.

What could I have done better? Maybe the gooey stuff, if it was just
mucus, was not a problem and I should have stuck with the original
sample. Definitely, it was not a good idea to try to drain off the
bubbles in the second sample, and I should just have persisted to get
the liquid part above the line.

In the future:

* Don't worry too much about mucus in the saliva -- just make sure
  there's no other contaminants.

* Don't try to drain off the bubbles -- ignore them and just get the
  liquid part to the line. Though if the first collection works, there
  shouldn't be much by way of bubbles.

### Removable funnel cap placement

I made the mistake of placing the removable funnel cap, after removing
it, in the box that I have to use for return. Some liquid from the cap
ended up staining a part of the lower inside of the box.

In general, make sure not to put anything in the box for return until
getting to the final packing stage.
