# Best practices around anal irritation

Anal irritation encompasses:

* Burning sensation in the anus, generally after bowel movement that
  includes capsaicin

* Itching sensation in the anus (generally correlated with and following burning sensation)

* Anal swelling (upper or lower)

* Anal fissures as self-diagnosed (generally accompanied by lower anal swelling and a brief period of bleeding)

The sequence tends to be burning -> itching -> anal swelling, or
burning -> itching -> anal fissures -> anal swelling.

## Best practices around prevention

### Care with use and reintroduction of capsaicin (an alkaline ingredient that accounts for spicy/hot sensation)

Capsaicin is what makes chillies and peppers spicy/hot. Among the
foods I eat, the two main foods that have capsaicin are cayenne pepper
(that I sometimes add to meals) and kimchi (that I sometimes eat in
place of sauerkraut).

There are capsaicin receptors throughout the GI tract, which cause a
sensation of pain, but these are particularly concentrated at the
mouth and anus. That's why it's said that spicy food burns you twice;
on the way in (mouth) and on the way out (anus).

#### Mouth versus anus

The key difference between the mouth and anus is that pain in the
mouth can be controlled more easily:

* Neutralizing and diluting agents work better in the mouth, because
  they can be timed and positioned to be next to the capsaicin. In
  contrast, at the anus end, we don't have control over how things
  will be packaged. So the effect of neutralizing and diluting agents
  on the anus side is less clear.

* The mouth allows for immediate feedback -- if it's feeling hot, I
  can take immediate action, by diluting, neutralizing (with protein
  or acid) or at least stopping further consumption. The feedback loop
  on the anus end is not that fast -- the food has to come out the
  anus and it's too late to change things. So, prevention is more
  important.

#### Spice tolerance and care in reintroduction

Capsaicin receptors tend to get dulled through regular capsaicin
consumption (a phenomenon known as spice tolerance). So, it's not so
much the level of capsaicin consumption that matters but rather sudden
changes in the level. In particular, any reintroduction of capsaicin
should be done very gently.

The main reason I want to develop spice tolerance is that I want to
have the flexibility of eating outside food (where the spice level is
nonzero). Not crazy spicy food, just food at Westernized Indian, Thai,
or Vietnamese restaurants. So, all else equal, I want to develop and
maintain a moderate amount of spice tolerance.

The problem is that there are periods of time where I pause capsaicin
consumption for safety reasons, for instance, [around dental
procedures](best-practices-around-dental-cleaning-appointments.md), or
around [fasting or talking for long durations](best-practices-around-fasting.md).

This means that resuming capsaicin after not having it for a
nontrivial period (two weeks or more) should be done very gradually,
particularly keeping in mind the anus (because of the lack of a rapid
feedback loop). My current thinking is to start at 50%. Also, when
using cayenne pepper, keep in mind the lack of feedback loop.

#### Neutralization and dilution

The alkaline capsaicin can in principle be neutralized by acid. The
best neutralizer is casein, a milk protein, which I unfortunately
don't have. Proteins in vegan yogurts may be somewhat effective. Also,
acid in sauerkraut may be effective. However, acid in sauerkraut has
other risks.

Dilution can be done with almond milk, miso ginger broth, or just
water, but it likely doesn't help at the other end (anus) as the stuff
gets separated out in the GI tract. (Neutralization still might work?).

This presents an interesting point: my regular sauerkraut consumption
may be neutralizing the capsaicin when I'm having both. But if I pause
sauerkraut without pausing capsaicin, I may end up with an imbalance
and cause the capsaicin to irritate me more. For this reason, I should
make sure to pause capsaicing whenever pausing sauerkraut, if
possible.

### Care with use and reintroduction of intense acidic foods (sauerkraut and kimchi)

Sauerkraut and kimchi are both intense acidic foods. These can cause
anal irritation. Kimchi is a double whammy because it also contains
capsaicin (which might help with neutralization of itself, I'm not
sure? But overall more risky). Generally I have more experience with
sauerkraut and know it to be safe under normal circumstances.

For reintroduction, I always reintroduce sauerkraut before kimchi, and
try to reintroduce at 50% of my usual before going to 100%.

Another gotcha noted earlier is that stopping sauerkraut while
continuing capsaicin can make anal irritation due to capsaicin worse.

### Care with hard foods (such as walnuts)

To a first approximation, I am not planning to take any specific steps
around hard foods when it comes to anal irritation, when I am feeling
fine (i.e., from a primary prevention perspective).

## Best practices around stopping the irritation in its tracks

### Responding to an itching or burning sensation (no bleeding and no significant swelling yet)

The early warning sign, that may self-resolve, or may be a harbinger of
worse things, is an itching or burning sensation. Sometimes, there's
also a sensation of heaviness or closing up. These usually happen
early in the swelling process, so the hope is that prompt action here
can help.

#### Wet wiping a few times a day

Wet wiping the anus a few times a day after experiencing an itching or
burning sensation may help. Figure out the temperature of the water
(cold or lukewarm) based on what feels right.

#### Anal sphincter control

While I'm still in the phase where anal sphincter contractions are not
too painful and I don't have a spasming tendency, I should refresh my
anal sphincter control, including:

* How to refrain from unnecessary anal sphincter contractions while seated

* Posture changes (such as sitting to standing) without anal sphincter
  contraction (this is harder to achieve as the pain gets worse, and
  also more important to achieve)

* How to do controlled, smaller anal sphincter contractions to relieve
  itching without doing the larger contractions that end up worsening
  the problem

#### Stopping foods

* Pause consumption of capsaicin (cayenne pepper and kimchi); don't
  add cayenne pepper to new preparations and use a safe neutralizer
  (such as yogurt) for the food already prepared with it.

* Pause consumption of sauerkraut and walnuts until it becomes clear
  that the problem is not getting worse (evidenced by a day without
  either significant or recurrent itching or burning sensation). If I
  really do need walnuts, limit consumption to less than 50% of my
  usual level.

### Once the swelling is more serious

#### Continue all the previous practices

Continue with wet wiping, anal sphincter control, and stopping foods.

#### Consider reducing the quantity of flatulence-producing foods

Flatulence can be a bit more painful when the anal sphinchter is
tensed up due to swelling.

#### Get extra sleep

Aim for about 8.5 hours a day of sleep instead of the usual 7.5-8
hours. Since bowel pressure can be strong in the morning, try to
achieve this goal by sleeping a little earlier rather than waking up
later.

#### Look into more advanced options if things don't improve in 3 days

These include sitz baths, creams, taking photos, and consulting a
specialist.

## Best practices around recovery/reintroduction after anal swelling

### Resume walnuts after things seem perfect or are on recovery for at least three days

Resume walnuts after three days on a recovery trajectory, or after one
day of things being perfect. Resume at 50% capacity and ramp up to
100% after waiting at least two days at 50%.

### Resume sauerkraut at least three days after resuming walnuts; ramp 25%, 50%, 75%, 100%

Wait at least three days after resuming walnuts to resume sauerkraut,
assuming no adverse symptoms and continued recovery trajectory. Ramp
25%, 50%, 75%, 100%.

### Resume capsaicin foods about a week after resuming sauerkraut, if all looks good

Err on the side of caution.
