# Best practices around blood tests

## Build out the blood test plans a few months in advance

This includes research on the blood tests, their costs, methodologies,
and what I'll learn from them.

Also get the latest information on the test locations and hours.

## Book the tests

Book the tests. Generally, the tests don't have a fixed appointment
time, just a walk-in time. I should aim to book at least two days
before my intended date of going for the tests. Keep in mind the test
location hours (usually Monday to Friday, opening around 7 AM or 8 AM,
and staying open till around 4 PM).

## Set a bunch of calendar reminders

### Set a calendar reminder for the test date

Since the test is likely to include at least some pieces that require
fasting, I should do the test in the morning, ideally after waking up,
bowel movement, morning tasks, and bath (and without eating).

Set a calendar reminder from 7 AM to noon on the test date. Invite my
work email address as well so that the time is blocked on my work
calendar.

I should budget to leave about 2 hours after waking up, arrive 30
minutes after leaving, and spend about an hour at the test location,
then 30 minutes back.

Since there's not fixed date, just an intended date, I can move this
around if things happen at work.

### Set calendar reminders to sleep early starting two days before the test date

I don't need to sleep super-early, but it's good to not stay up too
late. Set calendar reminders for these.

### Set calendar reminders to skip exercise starting the day prior to the blood test

It is recommended to not do vigorous exercise for at least 24 hours
prior to a blood test, so skipping exercise the day prior to the blood
test should be fine.

### Set calendar reminders to resume hand gripper exercises and strength exercise

* Jogging and breath tests can be resumed the next day after the blood
  test if I'm feeling up to it. No calendar reminder is needed.

* Hand gripper exercises in the other hand can be resumed three days
  after the blood draw.

* Hand gripper exercises in the arm of the blood draw can be resumed
  seven days after the blood draw.

* Strength exercises can be resumed eight days after the blood draw.

### Set calendar reminders to pause supplements for two days prior to the blood test

Recent consumption of supplements can distort blood test results,
particularly when the blood test is for the materials being
supplemented (the risk is highest for water-soluble vitamins). Pausing
supplement consumption starting two days prior to the blood draw gets
rid of the distortion.

Supplement consumption can be resumed in the meal I have immediately
after the blood test, or the next day.

## Day of the appointment

### Make sure to drink enough water

Drinking enough water can help with the blood draw process, reduce my
hunger, and reduce the risk of dehydration from the journey for the
blood draw.
