# Best practices around DEXA scans

## Book the appointment

Unlike the case of blood tests, DEXA scans are directly booked with
the provider. The two providers in the San Francisco Bay Area are
[BodySpec](https://www.bodyspec.com/) and
[DexaFit](https://www.dexafit.com/). Based on cost and location
considerations, I'd probably pick BodySpec.

I should aim to book at least two days before my intended date of
going for the tests. Keep in mind the test location hours (usually
Monday to Friday, opening around 7 AM or 8 AM, and staying open till
around 4 PM).

For time of day, consider that I will likely need to travel to San
Francisco for the appointment, which includes a BART trip and
additional walking (and maybe additional steps). This is unlike the
case of blood tests where it's just a brief walk. Therefore, aim for a
time that is at least 3.5 hours after my natural waking-up time, and
ideally somewhere between 4 hours and 5 hours.

Try to book at a time when there is nothing of this sort in the
previous or next two weeks:

* Ill health of any sort

* Medical appointments such as eye care appointments, other tests, or
  dental cleaning appointments

* Intercity travel

* Unusually high-stress events

At the time of booking, I should carefully read the policy around
cancellation and rescheduling, so that I know what to do if things
come up and I can no longer make the appointment time.

## Calendar reminders

### ASAP after the appointment date and time are confirmed

* Maintenance windows for work alerts where I'm primary: I can set
  these up when the appointment time is confirmed. Generally, set the
  maintenance window to start two hours prior to the start and end
  five hours after the end.

* Overrides for me for services where I rotate with others: Try for
  the override to be a full-day override covering at least two hours
  prior to the start and four hours after the end of the appointment.

* Work calendar events and Slack reminders: I should clear out as much
  as possible, and then after that be particularly careful in the 2-3
  days leading up to the appointment to keep that day clear.

### Reminder for the scan date

Since the test is likely to include at least some pieces that require
fasting, I should do the test in the morning, ideally after waking up,
bowel movement, morning tasks, and bath (and without eating).

Set a calendar reminder from 7 AM to at least three hours after the test
time on the test date. Invite my work email address as well so that
the time is blocked on my work calendar.

I should budget to leave about 2 hours after waking up, arrive within
1 to 1.5 hours after leaving, spend 1 to 1.5 hours at the test
location, and return about 1 to 1.5 hours after leaving.

### Reminders to sleep early starting two days before the test date

I don't need to sleep super-early, but it's good to not stay up too
late. Set calendar reminders for these.

### Reminder to eat so that I finish about 13 to 16 hours prior to my expected scan time

Having food in my system can affect the quality of the scan (for
instance, it may show fake left/right differences if I have recently
eaten). So, aim to finish eating about 13 to 16 hours prior to my
expected scan time. Try to have a good bowel movement (as usual) the
day of, so that I have relatively clean insides.

### Weather check reminder for two days prior to the appointment

Set a weather check reminder for two days prior to the appointment.

### Reminder to skip exercise starting the day prior to the DEXA scan

While it's recommended to skip exercise the day of the DEXA scan,
skipping exercise the prior day is not needed. But it may be safer to
skip anyway to conserve time and energy and build up a buffer of MEWs.

### Reminder to pause supplements for two days prior to the DEXA scan

I should pause all supplements for two days prior to the DEXA scan. In
general, it is recommended to pause the consumption of calcium,
multivitamins, and various GI medicines (which I don't take) the day
prior to the DEXA scan. Skipping all supplements for two days seems
like a safe practice.

### Packing / prep reminder for the night before the blood test

What printed or phone documents do I need to carry?

Make sure I have the right clothes for tomorrow.

Make sure I have the right stuff to empty my pockets into my backpack
(keys, wallet, etc. would need to be removed from my pockets during
the scan).

## Day of the appointment

### Make sure to wear clothes without any metal (even zippers)

Clothes with metal can interfere with the integrity of DEXA scans.

### Make sure to drink enough water (if testing allows)

I may be out and about in the sun for a while, and then wait for a
while, so drink enough water before leaving.
