# Best practices around sleep

This document outlines my best practices around sleep.

## Background on my sleep and waking-up pattern

### My default pattern

Outside of winter months, I generally go to sleep some time between 10
PM and 1 AM and wake up some time between 6 AM and 8:30 AM. In the
winter months, my sleep time and waking-up time might be a little
delayed as it's very cold in the mornings. Also, during the hottest
months as well, my sleep time and waking-up time might also be delayed
as the mornings are the coolest times when it's tolerable to be in
bed.

My default sleep duration is about 7.5-8 hours. Generally, going down
to 7 hours on a day doesn't have significant repercussions.

#### Default minimum gap between last meal and sleeping

I default to a minimum gap of 3 hours between the end of my last meal
and sleeping, with the gap being larger in some cases. I also aim for
a gap of at least 2 hours between the last meal and
shower/bath. Aspirationally, I try for at least 4 hours from end of
last meal to sleep, and at least 3 hours from end of last meal to
shower/bath, but I'm not strict about these under ordinary conditions
(more on the reason for the gap later in the doc).

### Sleeping late and getting up naturally

This may happen, for instance, in cases that I am really hooked to
some task or need continuous attention to it, causing me to sleep
late. It also sometimes happens due to induced laundry delays, or
planning issues with my day.

In such cases, even though I get up naturally, I will very likely not
have gotten my full worth of sleep. The reason is that my body is used
to waking up within a specific time range, so if I sleep late, it'll
still wake up around the time range even if the body's sleep needs are
not fully met. A crude heuristic is that if I sleep x hours later than
usual, I will likely wake up about x/3 hours later than usual, so that
I sleep about 2x/3 hours less than usual.

Despite the slight sleep backlog built by sleeping late and getting up
naturally, this is still relatively low-risk as the body has likely
finished the most important functions that it needs to carry out in
its sleep, assuming x isn't too large. For instance, sleeping 2 hours
late, and therefore waking up about 40 minutes late, I have about 1
hour 20 minutes less sleep than usual, but my body was able to give up
the 1 hour 20 minutes of repair work that were least important.

### Interrupted sleep -- waking up suddenly (usually due to an alarm or alert, sometimes due to some pain)

I generally set my alarms and alert settings so that they are likely
to go off only after I wake up naturally. However, there are a few
scenarios where these might go off earlier:

* Alerts for some services at work are on at night, as they relate to
  critical infrastructure that needs to be up continuously. The
  frequency of triggering is very low, but it can still happen.

* In some cases, I may set an alarm for an early time, due to some
  early-morning activity I need to do. My general goal, where I have
  enough advance notice, is to adjust my sleep cycle gradually. But in
  some cases that isn't feasible.

Separate from these, I might get up sometimes to urinate or due to
some pain or bad dream. Usually, I'm able to go right back to sleep,
but sometimes I can't. As of May 2024, this is very rare, but it could
happen.

The case of waking up suddenly tends to be worse in terms of bowel
disruption than the case of sleeping late, likely because the body's
plans are disrupted. Waking up suddenly more than 1 hour prior to my
natural waking-up time can cause symptoms such as grogginess and
fatigue; waking up more than 2 hours prior can cause symptoms such as
constipation and bowel cycle disruption.

### Sleeping with an overnight emotional or physical stress

As a general rule, *unresolved* emotional stress (for something that I
was not able to resolve), or physical stress of some sort, increase my
sleep needs. The general increase range is about 1 hour. However, in
case of infections that my body needs to actively fight, I may need to
increase by 2 or 3 hours.

This therefore changes the goalposts in terms of the approximate
thresholds given in the earlier subsections.

## Best practices to follow during normal times

By normal times I'm referring to times when I'm not facing a health
situation that requires extra sleep, and I am not trying to adjust my
sleep cycle.

### When to get into bed

The latest time by which I should be in bed should be the earliest
among these:

* At least 7 hours before the beginning of the range of time at which
  I naturally wake up; for instance, if I naturally wake up between 7
  AM and 7:30 AM these days, I should aim to be in bed by midnight.

* At least 8 hours before the time I have set my alarm for

* At least 9 hours before the time I absolutely need to get out of bed

The earliest time by which I should be in bed is 2 hours earlier than
the latest time, unless I am feeling fatigue that makes me want to go
to bed earlier than that.

Also, **don't get into bed less than 3 hours after finishing my last
meal**.

### Urinate right before going to bed

Urine pressure is one reason I sometimes prematurely wake up. So,
urinating right before going to bed, even if I don't feel like I have
enough urine built up, can help reduce that. This is not always
necessary, but is a best practice.

### Sleeping in

* If I have completed at least 7 hours of sleep, feel awake and alert,
  and want to get out of bed, I should get out of bed.

* On the other hand, if I have completed fewer than 7 hours of sleep,
  then I should try to get some extra time in bed (even if not fully
  asleep) until I hit 7 hours. If I have urine pressure build-up I
  should go and urinate first so the remainder of my time in bed can
  be more relaxed.

* If I have significant bowel pressure already (before getting to an
  upright position) then it may be better to have a bowel movement and
  then spend some extra time in bed. However, generally speaking,
  bowel pressure doesn't become significant at less than 7 hours of
  sleep until I spend some time in a seated or upright position, so in
  order to get extra sleep I should try to avoid getting in a seated
  position.

### Reducing the incidence of unplanned late sleep

#### Distinction between immediate versus lagged impetus for staying up late

One kind of reason for staying up late is an in-the-moment decision to
continue staying up, because of stuff that I want to do. The good
thing with this kind of reason is that I have the flexibility to
change my mind.

Another kind of reason for staying up late is that something comes up
that is unexpected and time-sensitive.

A third kind of reason for staying up late is that I am trapped by the
consequences of earlier decisions. This could include cases where I am
trapped to do specific stuff (like laundry that I started earlier in
the day when I thought it'd go quicker, or day job stuff where I
either procrastinated on it earlier in the day or made some mistakes
that made it take much longer) and also cases where I just have to
stay awake and upright because earlier stuff led me to have my last
meal late in the day. I may feel so trapped despite feeling groggy and
sleepy.

This third kind of reason is something I want to avoid as much as
possible (the first kind of reason is generally positive due to the
flexibility I have to back out, and the second kind of reason is
largely unavoidable at least locally).

#### Time targets to avoid lagged reasons for staying up late

To avoid cases where I end up staying up late due to being trapped by
earlier decisions, I need to have an overall mental map early in the
day regarding the consequences for me if I do specific activities at
those early times.

### Reducing the incidence of sudden waking up

* Make sure the alarm is set to a reasonable time, at least 30 minutes
  after when I expect to wake up naturally.

* To the extent possible, configure alerts so that they don't phone me
  before my natural waking-up time. On occasions where I need to sleep
  in a bit more due to going to sleep late, I may want to tweak the
  alert settings temporarily.

## Best practices to follow during health issues

### When to get into bed

When I'm experiencing health issues where I have reason to believe
that additional sleep might be helpful, I should adjust the guidance
regarding the latest time I should be in bed as follows:

* At least 8.5 hours before the beginning of the range of time at
  which I naturally wake up; for instance, if I naturally wake up
  between 7 AM and 7:30 AM these days, I should aim to be in bed by
  10:30 PM.

* At least 9 hours before the time I have set my alarm for

* At least 10 hours before I absolutely need to wake up

The earliest time by which I should be in bed is 2 hours earlier than
the latest time, unless I am feeling fatigue that makes me want to go
to bed earlier than that.

Also, in case of health issues affecting digestion or with potential
effect on digestion, **increase the minimum gap from finishing my last
meal to sleeping to 4.5 hours from the default of 3 hours**. This
increases the chances of finishing the third MMC wave before I go to
sleep.

If I can't simultaneously satisfy the condition of getting sufficient
sleep and maintaining the increased eating/sleeping gap, it's a
judgment call what to prioritize, and it generally depends on whether
my issue is more one of digestion or one of fatigue or
infection-fighting.

### Urinate right before going to bed

As with nomal times, it is important to urinate right before going to
bed. In fact, it becomes more important to do so, as getting the full
amount of sleep becomes more important when I have health issues.

### Sleeping in

Similar to normal times, I should follow the practice of sleeping in,
but now using 8.5 hours rather than 7 hours as the threshold.

## Best practices to follow during a sleep cycle adjustment phase

For a sleep cycle adjustment phase, I should aim to adjust at a speed
of about 15 minutes per day if feasible, with occasional relaxation to
confirm that Ihave fully adjusted.

During these times, I should follow this guidance:

* Aim to get in bed about 8 hours before the intended waking-up time
  (in case I also happen to have health issues during this time that
  necessitate extra sleep, make this 9.5 hours)

* Set alarms starting 15 minutes after the intended waking-up time.

Create a table with a schedule of adjustments and create another table
with the reality of what transpired.

