# Best practices around supplement consumption

## At-home daily supplement consumption

Consume supplements with the first meal of the day. Any supplements
that got missed, I can consume with the second meal of the day.

Put the supplements on my plate after serving myself the food, but
before starting to eat (in some cases I might forget and start to eat,
and then remember after a few minutes of eating -- it's fine to add a
little late). Try not to mix the supplements inside liquid or sticky
parts of the food. Keep the supplements clearly visible so that I
don't accidentally pick them up.

Consume the supplements through the course of the meal. Do not load a
lot of food along with the supplement, and make sure to have fully
swallowed any prior food in the mouth. For the bigger tablets, keep
water handy and be prepared to sip water if it doesn't easily go down
the throat.

If a supplement gets slightly wet, it's fine -- consume as is.

If a supplement gets very wet or mixes too much with the food,
consider getting an extra dose to make up. If this kind of thing is
happening very often, revisit my protocol around where to put the
supplements on the plate and how quickly to consume them.

If I serve myself multiple doses over and above the intended original
or replacement doses (for instance, right at the start or when
replacing a damaged dose), I can, with clean hands, put the extra
doses back inside (don't use hands with food on them). Alternatively,
I can skip the supplement the next day to make up.

## At-home occasional supplement consumption

For the supplements that I don't have daily, follow a similar process
as for the daily supplements, but pay particular attention to make
sure I'm taking the right one. Monitor for expected and unexpected
effects in the hours following the consumption.

## Travel supplement consumption

Carry the doses of supplements either in their own bottle or a floss
pick box. Pop the pills in my mouth and then drink the liquid stuff
(like almond milk) to have them go down.
