# Best practices around exertion and stimulation

In many cases, I've experienced problems as a result of high levels of
exertion and stimulation, and in at least some of those cases, I could
have avoided or reduced those levels while still achieving the goals I
am interested in.

This document provides guidance on best practices regarding limits to
adhere to, even if I feel like I can do more.

It complements the [best practices around
sleep](best-practices-around-sleep.md).

## Walking/jogging: limit adjusted exertion level measured via MEWs

### MEW calculation

If I jog x miles and walk y miles, my total mile equivalents walked
(MEW) are to be calculated as 2x + y.

### Limits

With this calculation, the rules are as follows:

* Limit MEWs to 4.5-5.5 miles for every intermeal / pre-meal /
  post-meal period. In other words, any total MEWs over 5.5 miles
  should have a meal in between.

* Limit daily MEWs to 7-8 miles.

### How to decide between the lower and upper end of the range for the limit

Generally, use these factors to determine whether to stick to the lower
or upper end of the range (4.5 vs 5.5 or 7 vs 8):

* Do I have an otherwise demanding day cognitively or emotionally?
* Is the temperature decent? 15-20 degrees Celsius ambient
  temperatures are ideal and support higher limits. The farther the
  temperature from this range, the more I should go toward the lower
  limit.

### Typical daily cycle fits limits easily

Generally, I do one jogging/walking trip that is 2 miles total
(outside of very cold periods this is in the morning before any
meals). The proportion of jogging to walking can vary, but the highest
MEWs I can get from this is 4 miles, below the 4.5 miles lower value
for the limit.

I may also go for shopping trips. These can vary from 1 to 3 miles
depending on where exactly I go. Even at the high end of 3 miles,
these also fall below the 4.5-5.5 mile level.

Moreover, the total of a fully jogged 2 miles (4 MEWs) and a walking
trip of 3 miles (3 MEWs) is 7 miles, at the lower end of the range of
suggested limits.

### I should skip or reduce jogging on days when I anticipate more walking later in the day

In some cases, I may do longer walking trips for work, bureaucracy, or
pleasure. Either skipping jogging or jogging a shorter distance makes
sense so that I can stay within 7-8 miles total MEWs.

### This rules out the possibility of jogging and then going for a 3-mile shopping trip before my first meal

And that's a good thing, because that is what kicked off the
[2024-07-18
incident](2024-07-18-excessive-morning-activity-and-abdominal-pain-in-the-afternoon.md).

### If I do have to break the rules ...

If I need to exceed these MEWs, try to follow these practices:

* Try to take a break/rest at every 3 MEWs or less, of at least 30
  minutes. Make sure to drink water. If it's hot, make sure to take a
  break in the shade.

## Sun and heat exposure

These are the limits:

* Continuous outdoor exposure: 60 minutes when it is sunny, 40 minutes
  without sunglasses; can increase appropriately when it is cloudy or
  partially cloudy (break should be at least 5 minutes)

* Total outdoor exposure: 2 hours when it is sunny, 1 hour 20 minutes
  without sunglasses; can increase appropriately when it is cloudy or
  partially cloudy

### Typical daily cycle fits limits easily

* Jogging/walking is generally about 25-35 minutes; sometimes it's
  sunny when jogging (but not always).

* Shopping trips are generally 5-40 minutes walking, then shopping (at
  least 5 minutes in the shop), then 5-40 minutes walking back. Some
  of them have multiple stops. Even if done when sunny, they still fit
  within the limits.

## Optional cognitive stimulation

* At most 45 minutes per day of audio on speaker, not including
  meetings (where I am listening to it while washing dishes). This is
  because listening to audio this way can be a bit strenuous and also
  cuts into my unwinding / processing / sorting time. In practice,
  doing this at the end of one meal, or during some meal prep or
  cleaning activity, should be good enough.

* At most 2 hours per day of cognitively challenging or
  semi-challenging audio/video for optional learning, except in cases
  where I have a specific goal to learn something specific by a
  deadline.

## Audio stimulation

The optional cognitive stimulation above already places some limits on audio.

In addition, limit the use of music and non-required audio through the
day. In particular:

* No music or other non-required audio until I have completed my morning exercise

* No music or other non-required audio for at least one hour prior to
  my 1-hour-notice-to-sleep time

* Try to limit music and non-required audio to at most 50% of the
  remaining computer time outside of meals and meal prep. This is
  harder to measure accurately. But for instance, when playing a song
  on repeat, consider waiting about the same length as the duration of
  song before hitting the replay button.
