# Best practices around intense and hard food consumption

## Intense food

The following foods are ones I consider intense:

* Very intense: spicy outside food, including food from Indian and
  Thai restaurants
* Moderately intense: Sauerkraut and kimchi

## Hard foods

The main hard food I consume is walnuts. This is not intense on its
own, but the hard and sharp edges pose some risk of injury and
aggravation if I'm not careful.

## How to consume intense and hard foods

### Dilute and neutralize for intense foods

Make sure to not have very intense or moderately intense foods on
their own. Dilute with water at a minimum, and ideally mix in with the
rest of my food including almond milk, yogurt, miso ginger broth,
etc. This reduces the intensity of the spice.

### For walnuts, chew well and carefully

As walnuts have sharp edges, chew well and carefully, and be careful
not to miss the mark when biting.

Chewing well is helpful to reduce sharp edges going into the GI
tract. Chewing carefully is important to not injure the mouth itself.

## General frequency limits

### For moderately intense foods, limit to one food type and to one meal per day

My general practice is to have sauerkraut or kimchi with my morning
meal. I generally have kimchi once every 3 or 4 days and sauerkraut on
the remaining days. Sauerkraut has fewer ingredients and I have a
pattern of tolerating it better.

### For very intense foods, do not have more than one meal every 4 days, and try to avoid consumption of moderately intense foods for the day of to two days after

For very intense foods, limit to one meal every 4 days. Also, if aware
in advance, try to avoid sauerkraut / kimchi consumption the day of,
and for two days after, the intense food consumption. Symptoms (anal
swelling, mouth issues, etc.) from very intense foods can take up to
two days to appear.

## Limits related to fasting

See [best practices around fasting](best-practices-around-fasting.md).

## Limits before important events

### Try to not consume very intense foods for up 7-14 days prior to any critical appointments

For instance, a dental cleaning or vaccination appointment. The exact
gap can be determined based on other circumstances. 14 days is safest;
7 days is cutting it close.

### Limit consumption of moderately intense and aggravating foods prior to dental cleaning appointments

Since the mouth is an area where sauerkraut, kimchi, and nuts can
cause injuries or aggravate them, limit the consumption of these foods
prior to dental cleaning appointments. The limit as of now is six
days; see [best practices around dental cleaning
appointments](best-practices-around-dental-cleaning-appointments.md)
for more details.

For other kinds of appointments, it is okay to consume these foods
leading up to the day of the appointment.

## Limits after experiencing issues

### After abdominal discomfort issues

See [best practices around abdominal
discomfort](best-practices-around-abdominal-discomfort.md).

### After mouth issues

See also [best practices around mouth bites](best-practices-around-mouth-bites.md).

To be safe, I should pause consumption of sauerkraut, kimchi, and walnuts,
until at least two days after any of these is true:

* I have just injured my mouth and it's not totally clear how bad the
  issue is yet.

* I can still feel a swelling when probing with my tongue or see it in
  the mirror (so basically I need at least two days without being able
  to feel it, with the exception of walnuts).

* I feel pain or smarting when eating, flossing, rinsing, or brushing.

* My thoughts are frequently directed to the area, even if I don't
  feel any pain.

For walnuts, I can experimentally resume after two days of initial
pain or swelling, even if the swelling continues, as long as I only
feel it on probing or visually, and do not experience thought
direction. However, I should do so only if I am confident of being
able to consume the walnuts without having them irritate that part of
the mouth. If I have swelling in multiple sites in a way that it
raises the risk of walnut consumption being in touch with at least one
of the sites, I should not resume walnut consumption until two days
after I can no longer feel the swelling.

For very intense foods (outside food) I should refrain from
consumption of these until about a week after the issue appears to be
completely resolved.

### After anal swelling issues (assumed to be anal fissures)

See also [best practices around anal swelling](best-practices-around-anal-swelling.md).

For anal swelling issues, it is safer to pause the consumption of
sauerkraut, kimchi, and walnuts until at least two days after any of
these is true:

* I have bleeding in stool or when wiping.

* I have frequent urge for anal contractions (anal spasms).

* My thoughts are constantly directed to the anal swelling.

It's important to be particularly careful to chew the nuts thoroughly
(this is good advice in general, but particularly relevant at this
time). The key is to reduce the likelihood of hard edges surviving
through the GI tract.

**When reintroducing, staggered release is preferable. The general
  recommendation is to reintroduce nuts first, get to 100% on nuts,
  then proceed to sauerkraut/kimchi.**

For nuts, ramp up by going to 50% of usual level on the first day and
then to 100% on the next day, and monitor carefully for worsening of
symptoms.

For sauerkraut and kimchi, when resuming, ramp up starting at 25% of
usual level, then go to 50%, then 75% and then 100%, and monitor
carefully for worsening of symptoms.

Some differences between the logic for mouth issues and anal issues:

* Mouth issues local to a specific part of the mouth can be dealt with
  by controlling what parts of the mouth I use for ingestion (this is
  particularly true for nuts but less so for sauerkraut and
  kimchi). In contrast, I have less control on the anal side.

* The quality of digestion (starting with chewing in the mouth and
  then digestion in the GI tract) can affect the severity of anal
  impact.

* Quantity matters in both cases but for the mouth it's more about
  probability of damage (at least for nuts) whereas on the anus there
  could be a cumulative effect. So a slow ramp-up may be more
  important on the anal side.
