# Best practices around abdominal discomfort

This document describes best practices around abdominal discomfort,
outside of the ones directly caused by bowel disruption (as covered in
[another
doc](best-practices-around-bowel-disruption-due-to-sleep-and-stress.md)
(though it can co-occur with these).

The main culprit seems to be overexertion leading to a dysregulation
of the body causing hyergastrinemia -- excess stomach acid
production. However, there could be other causes.

## Best practices for prevention

### Avoid multiple overexertion factors

The following are some overexertion factors that can have weird
dysregulatory effects, even outside of their direct effect on bowel
movements:

* A lot of exercise (walking, running) in the morning before eating
  any food.

* Extended sun exposure before eating any food.

* Delaying initial food consumption significantly (see also [best
  practices around fasting](best-practices-around-fasting.md)).

* Not having enough water before having food (see also [best practices
  around fasting](best-practices-around-fasting.md)).

As much as possible, try to avoid all of these. For instance:

* If it's hot in the morning, and I need to go shopping in the morning
  (maybe because it gets even hotter in the afternoon and evening)
  skip jogging and go shopping. Don't try to pack jogging + shopping
  into the time before my morning meal.

* Try to eat a little bit of food, or take some walnuts for a snack,
  if leaving early in the morning for something without having the
  time to eat a proper meal (though ideally I should adjust my sleep
  cycle, get up early, and have a proper meal before leaving).

* If I did get delayed quite a bit due to jogging etc., try to not add
  further delays by cooking stuff before eating -- try to eat using
  the stuff already cooked.

* Conversely, if I don't have a lot cooked, try to avoid/skip outside
  trips.

## Best practices after the fact

### Extra sleep

Follow the guidance in [best practices aroud sleep section "Best
practices during health
issues"](best-practices-around-sleep.md#best-practices-during-health-issues)
for every night where I experienced abdominal discomfort during the
day, and for two extra nights. In particular, the guidance here sets a
time to go to bed about 1.5 hours earlier than otherwise.

### Vegan probiotic yogurt consumption

With every meal, try to consume something like 1/8 to 1/6 of the 16 oz
Kite Hill Greek Style Plant-Based Yogurt, or equivalent for whatever I
am consuming. A rule of thumb is that each serving should have about 1
teaspoon of the yogurt. At the end, if I'm burping, the burp should
have that yogurt. Overall, this will make it so that even if I have
some symptoms of excess stomach acid, my discomfort from these
symptoms will be lower.

Do this as long as I experience discomfort, and for at least one day
after that.

Tapering off:

* Two days after I last experienced discomfort, I can reduce the
  yogurt amount to 2/3 of the old amount (so around 1/12 to 1/9 per
  meal), while still having it every meal.

* After two days at the halved level, and if discomfort does not
  return (so four days after last experienced discomfort), I can
  switch to yogurt for only the evening meal, still at 1/12 to 1/9 per
  meal.

* After two days at the single-meal level, I can choose to stop yogurt
  consumption, though I may want to continue at that level till that
  pack is finished.

In steady state, my aim should be to have yogurt for about a one-week
period at least once a month and not more than once every two
weeks. This keeps me exposed to the nutrients and probiotic elements
of yogurt while making me not depend on or crave this very yummy but
expensive item. However, in the recovery period from discomfort, my
consumption might go up to one per 3-4 days for a period of a week or
two while I recover.

