# Best practices around bowel disruption due to sleep and stress

This document describes my observations related to bowel disruption
due to sleep and stress, and some of the best practices to both
minimize the disruption and recover quickly from it once it happens.

## Role of various factors

### Sleep

See [best practices around sleep section "Background on my sleep and
waking-up
pattern"](best-practices-around-sleep.md#background-on-my-sleep-and-waking-up-pattern)
for reference. Highlights on the impact on bowel disruption:

* Sleeping late and getting up naturally is unlikely to cause
  significant constipation, unless it's very significantly late.

* Interrupted sleep (waking up suddenly) is more likely to cause
  constipation, so as much as possible, gradual adjustment is
  preferable.

* Sleeping with an overnight physical or emotional stress can cause
  constipation or other bowel disruption, so as much as possible, try
  to resolve the stresses before going to sleep.

## Best practices for prevention

### Sleep-related best practices

See [best practices around
sleep](best-practices-around-sleep.md). There are sections on best
practices to follow during normal times, best practices to follow
during health issues, and best practices to follow during a sleep
cycle adjustment phase. Follow the appropriate guidance.

### Meal timings relative to sleep

I should generally aim to finish my last meal at least three hours
prior to going to bed. I tend to do this naturally. In cases where I
need to go to sleep early (e.g., to wake up early, or to get extra
sleep) I need to work backward and make sure I finish my meal early
enough.

## Best practices after the fact

### Sleep-related best practices

See [best practices around
sleep](best-practices-around-sleep.md), keeping in mind that I should now be following the best practices during health issues.

### Drinking water (to be done at all levels of severity)

Unless I have a violent reflex against drinking water, it's important
to make sure to drink water to soothe my gastrointestinal tract that
may be a little confused and stressed. Paradoxically, sometimes
there's a general lethargy that may get in the way of my drinking even
my usual amount of water.

### Skipping or postponing exercise (only in case of clear fatigue, lethargy, or other symptoms)

In general, exercise can be good at revigorating my body, so in cases
where I feel up to it, I should still go for exercise. However, I
should skip exercise if bowel disruption due to less sleep is
accompanied by fatigue or lethargy. At minimum, it may make sense to
postpone exercise to the evening from the morning and assess in the
evening if I feel up to it.

### Having foods that are lighter on my system (in case of at least mild constipation and some unusual GI stuff)

I recommend having about 1/4 to 1/3 of the 16 oz Kite Hill Greek Style
Plant-Based Yogurt over the day, roughly evenly split between the
meals of the day.
