# Checklist when feeling unwell

This document includes a checklist of measurements and other actions
when feeling unwell. For the various checks, simple subjective
versions are included for the cases where I lack the energy or
resource access to do formal measurements.

## Basic checks

### Temperature (and fever)

Fever is one of the responses to various kinds of internal issues,
which can include infections, injuries, vaccines, and more.

Formal measurement: Forehead no-contact thermometer; measure middle,
left, and right side a few seconds apart. In case of wildly divergent
readings, take additional readings.

Informal measurement: Do I "feel" hot in ways that are
disproportionate to the ambient temperature?

How to interpret formal readings:

* Readings around 99.0 to 100.3 degrees Fahrenheit indicate a slight
  fever and are suggestive that the body has some inflammation or
  immune response. Such readings may be seen after a vaccine, injury,
  or infection. However, the low end here can be achieved through
  extended heat exposure without adequate cooling efforts.

  Stuff like acetaminophen is not needed in these cases unless there
  are other reasons to take it. However, cooling the body down through
  low-tech means may be warranted, if I am also feeling hot and don't
  have chills.

* Readings above 100.3 are very unlikely to be by chance, and suggest
  the fever itself may be a problem. Something like acetaminophen may
  make sense in these cases to help cool the body down. Don't take
  more than one dose every 6 hours.

### Feeling colder than usual (and chills)

This is a more subjective measurement. Do I feel colder than usual
given the ambient temperature? Generally, being off by more than 5
degrees in terms of subjective experience is indicative that my body
is up to something; for my baseline, see for instance
[here](../profile-information/temperature-subjective-experience-notes.md).

Chills are a little more extreme than just feeling colder than usual,
but they are related; the same degree of being unwell that causes
chills in colder weather may not cause clear-cut chills in hotter
weather. The hallmark of chills, for me, is sudden shivering, like a
spasm.

Chills are definitely indicative that something is wrong.

#### Fever and chills together

If I'm experiencing fever without chills, then cooling down seems
safe, but if I'm experiencing fever and chills, then staying warm
seems like the best idea. Basically chills is saying that the body
wants to be warmer, whereas a fever without chills is indicative of
the body having generated heat without necessarily wanting to stay hot
(??).

## Heart rate and blood pressure

