# 2024-12-13: blood tests

See [2024 blood test plans: round 2](2024-blood-test-plans-round-2.md)
for background information.

For the booking process, see
[here](2024-blood-test-plans-round-2.md#test-order-and-appointment).

## Preparatory steps

### 2024-12-11 (two days prior): pause of all supplements

Starting Wednesday 2024-12-11, I paused all supplements.

### 2024-12-11 (two days prior): pause of all exercise

Starting 2024-12-11, I paused all exercise. My plan from a blood test
perspective was to pause all exercise one day prior (2024-12-12), but
for other reasons (a lengthy conversation with work colleagues) I had
to skip exercise on 2024-12-11 as well.

### 2024-12-12: packing

On 2024-12-12, in the evening, I packed the printouts of my
requisition form and made sure I was all set.

### 2024-12-12: eating and sleeping early

I started my final meal of the day at 6:17 PM and finished it at 7:06
PM. This is about an hour prior to my usual meal time.

I went to sleep at 11:06 PM.

## Day of the blood draw

### Getting ready and reaching the location

I had set my alarm for 7:50 AM. By the time it rang, I was semi-awake,
but I decided to rest a few more minutes. I formally woke up at 7:54
AM.

I drank a bunch of water a little before 9:30 AM in preparation for
the blood draw.

I left my place at around 9:35 AM. Fortunately, it had stopped raining
by the time I left, though the sidewalks were still a bit wet.

I arrived at the building housing the LabCorp location (3000 Colby
Street) at around 9:55 AM. I put on my mask, sanitized my hands, and
then proceeded to enter the location (Suite 100 -- it was the first
room on the right of the hallway after I entered).

### Check-in process

I went to the kiosk for express check-in. I had to place my state ID
card back side up and it auto filled my details and asked me to
confirm. I also needed to confirm not having had anything to eat or
drink for the past 12 hours except water and black coffee. The
check-in finished at 10 AM.

I then took a seat and waited. I wrote down notes of the check-in
process on my phone and started catching up on other stuff.

At around 10:03 AM, the person at the front desk called me. She asked
me if I have an order form. I said yes. She wanted it. I asked if she
wanted a paper or electronic copy. She said paper if I have it, so I
gave her the signed version of my printed requisition form. She looked
through it and scanned it, and then kept the form for her
records. Then she asked for my appointment time. I said 10:30 AM. I
then went back to the waiting area and sat down. The process finished
around 10:05 AM.

### Preliminaries for blood draw

At around 10:09 AM, I was called by the phlebotomist who would do my
blood draw. I was told to wait in room 2. It was around 10:10 AM by
the time I got in room 2 and got seated.

At around 10:13 AM, the phlebotomist came into the room. There was
some confusion as she though I also had a stool sample, but I
clarified that I don't. She realized she had accidentally gotten an
additional order with mine. She sorted it out and then came back for
my blood draw. She asked for my name and date of birth to confirm my
identity. Then, the blood draw process started.

### Blood draw process

She asked which arm I want the blood drawn from. I said the right
arm. I had to repeat as she initially heard left arm.

I then rolled up the sleeve of the gray sweatshirt so that the
venipuncture area (around the elbow) was exposed. She then began the
blood draw process.

The blood draw process became painful toward the end, likely as the
volume of blood drawn increased.

After the blood draw, she asked me to hold onto the area with a little
gauze and then she tied a bandage around my elbow. She told me to keep
the bandage on for 30 minutes.

In total, there were three tubes of blood. I confirmed that they all
had stickers with my name on them. One tube was for the NMR
lipoprofile and one was for OmegaCheck (for omega-3). The third tube
was for the rest of the tests. This is likely because the NMR
lipoprofile and OmegaCheck both go to specialized separate labs.

### Departure

After exiting the blood draw room, I went to the front area, checked I
have all my belongings, then exited the LabCorp area. While still in
the building but outside the LabCorp area, I took off my mask and
recorded the time; it was 10:18 AM. I then headed back home (with a
stop at Walgreens for a few purchases).
