# 2024-06-08: paper cut from yogurt cover

This was on 2024-06-08 around 1 AM.

## How the cut happened

I had finished consuming my vegan probiotic yogurt (Kite Hill
Unsweetened). I was rinsing the container to leave it to dry for later
addition to the recycling.

The container has a paper wrapper on top, which I peeled off, washed,
and threw in the trash. What I didn't notice is that there were small
amounts of the wrapper left on the edges, and they had sharp edges
(the small amount of wrapper was visible, but the sharpness of the
edges wasn't clear).

When rinsing, I moved my left hand toward the side with the sharp
edges. The thing that hit it first was the outer front side of my left
index finger, right above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint.

## Immediate aftermath

I immediately felt sharp pain in the area, as well as disappointment
for having gotten a paper cut twice in a week. I tried pressing and
washing, but it was too late -- the cut started bleeding in a minute,
and I had to put a bandage around it.

## Next few hours

I waited some time (15-30 minutes?) and then opened the bandage to
check. Hemostasis had occurred, but the area was raw, and wetting my
hands while brushing my teeth led to a little further bleeding, so it
was necessary to keep another bandage. Unfortunately, I also
discovered that the location of the injury meant that a bandage
wouldn't be stable under handwashing, so I washed and dried my hands
and then put on a new bandage. I went to sleep around 2:15 AM with the
bandage.

## After waking up

I woke up around 7:45 AM and checked. There was still a scar but it
was stable enough that I could run water over it, wash my hands,
etc. without it getting too agitated. Given that bandages would
intrfere with my regular activities during the day, I decided to keep
the bandage off during the day while at home, with the possibility of
putting it back on at night or when doing some tasks like carrying
stuff where the area might get irritated.
