# 2024-10-28: tongue tip injury and itchiness

In the meal on the evening of 2024-10-28, I hit my tongue against the
roof of my mouth. I did noticethe impact although the pain wasn't
sharp and there was no bleeding, swelling, or visible redness.

Over that day and the next day, I continued to notice an itchy
sensation on the tip of my tongue. I also noticed increased salivation
at night on 2024-10-28, though I was mostly able to avoid drooling.

I did not immediately trigger the [best
practices around month
bites](../../best-practices-best-practices-around-mouth-bites.md) that
would have called for a pause to intense and hard foods for two
days. This is because that document had been written with gum and
cheek injuries in mind, rather than tongue itchiness. So, on
2024-10-29, I continued consuming almost-normal quantities of walnuts
and a somewhat-below-normal quantity of sauerkraut.

To be clear, I did not seem to notice any downsides from having these
foods; if anything, the sensations were greatly reduced when eating in
general, which might be due to the increased saliva production and the
generally cold nature of food being calming for the area.

~~My plan is that if I continue experiencing itchiness on the morning of
2024-10-30, I will implement the best practices around mouth
bites. Specifically, I plan to pause the consumption of intense and
hard foods, for the two days of 2024-10-30 and 2024-10-31, per the
best practices, and then reassess the situation on 2024-11-01. I'll
also be keeping in mind the other best practices, including drinking
enough water, coating the area with saliva, and doing regular probes.~~

I was no longer experiencing itchiness on the morning of 2024-10-30,
so I have scrapped the plan to pause sauerkraut and walnuts
consumption.

However, as part of the first meal on 2024-10-30, one of the walnuts
halves that I ate had a sharp edge that hit a different portion of the
tongue, causing a bit of itchiness there. If the itchiness persists to
my evening meal I might skip walnuts -- I have not decided as of the
end of the first meal. Even if I do have walnuts, I need to pay close
attention to technique to eliminate sharp impacts on the tongue.

UPDATE 2024-11-01: For the past day or so, this has been mild and
intermittent enough (despite my not restricting my diet in any way,
though I have tried to be more careful when chewing). So, I am
considering the issue resolved.
