# 2024 blood test plans

This page documents the thought process behind deciding on my blood
tests, as well as the process of getting them.

## Test list

I started working on this test shortlist in November 2023. I later
updated it in late August 2024 prior to ordering.

Total estimated cost: LabCorp: $445; Quest Diagnostics: $431. I went
with Quest Diagnostics.

I placed the order on 2024-08-27.

Details of the blood tests: [2024-09-03: blood
tests](2024-09-03-blood-tests.md).

### Insulin: followup measurement because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/insulin-testing (LabCorp: $59; Quest Diagnostics: $59)

My previous insulin test came back fairly normal (3.6). So this
followup is only being done due to family diabetic tendencies, and the
importance ascribed in certain circles to insulin testing.

### HbA1c with eAG: followup measurement because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/hemoglobin-a1c-with-eag-testing (LabCorp: $39; Quest Diagnostics: $39)

My last HbA1c test, in June 2021, came back pretty good at 5.0%. So,
this followup test is mostly just in light of the need to continue to
monitor this due to family diabetic tendencies.

I have continued to maintain a diet low in direct sugar content, with
most of my sugars coming through their natural occurrence in my
vegetables, so I do not expect my HbA1c to have deteriorated
significantly. But with a three-year gap it's good to get another
test.

### Lipid panel: followup measurement because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/lipid-panel-testing (LabCorp: $34; Quest Diagnostics: $36)

In the previous lipid panel, done 2021, my triglycerides were a tad
higher than I'd like, and the LDL might also have been a bit higher
than desired. The triglyceride:HDL ratio was also concerning. Given
these considerations, and family diabetic tendencies, it seems
worthwhile to get a lipid panel done. I do expect that my diet,
exercise, and stress level changes since then have been for the
better, but general age-related deterioration pushes in the other
direction.

### Omega-3: followup measurement to test the success of supplementation and dietary changes

Test details: https://requestatest.com/omega-3-blood-test (LabCorp: $129; Quest Diagnostics: $129)

I [started omega-3
supplementation](../2019/2019-12-30-decision-to-start-taking-omega-3-supplements.md)
in early 2020. I got my first test results in 2021, where I was okay
but below optimal. Since then, I've made further changes including the
addition of walnuts to my diet. This followup test is to assess the
success of those changes.

### Vitamin panel, basic (B12, D, and folate)

Test details: https://requestatest.com/basic-vitamin-deficiency-panel-vitamin-b12-d-folate-blood-test (LabCorp: $125; Quest Diagnostics: $109)

I decided to get tested for these as a package since it's cheaper than
testing the components individually, and considering that I have been
continuing to supplement Vitamin D and B12.

### CBC with differential and comprehensive metabolic panel

Test details: https://requestatest.com/complete-blood-count-cbc-and-comprehensive-metabolic-panel-cmp-blood-test (LabCorp: $59; Quest Diagnostics: $59)

I'm getting these tests done both due to not feeling well now, and to
get another followup measurement after my April tests (which were not
done with the proper fasting).

## Results and takeaways

Results have been included in [test_results.sql](../../sql/test_results.sql).

There have been two takeaways:

* I've decided to reduce my extent of use of olive oil in food
  (current plan is to still use olive oil, just in a lower
  quantity). Roughly, the plan is to halve the usage so that a single
  1 liter bottle lasts about 5-6 weeks instead of the current average
  of 3 weeks. I seem to be roughly on track for this goal.

  This is expected to help reduce my LDL cholesterol, triglycerides,
  and non-HDL cholesterol. These are already better than they were in
  2021, but still above the desired range and reducing olive
  oil. These may also help with omega-3.

* I've decided to increase my daily dose of omega-3 from 1 softgel per
  day to 2 softgels per day. See
  [here](2024-09-25-decision-to-increase-omega-3-supplement-daily-dose.md)
  for more information.

My plans for the next round of blood tests are in [2025 blood test
plans](../2025/2025-blood-test-plans.md).
