# 2024-08-21: FoodMarble Aire 2 purchase decision process

The context for this purchase decision process is the [2024-07-18
onward incident of abdominal
pain](2024-07-18-excessive-morning-activity-and-abdominal-pain-in-the-afternoon.md).

Sections of this document:

* [Reference material](#reference-material)
* [System requirements for the FoodMarble Aire 2](#system-requirements-for-the-foodmarble-aire-2)
* [Cost-benefit analysis of getting the FoodMarble Aire 2 now](#cost-benefit-analysis-of-getting-the-foodmarble-aire-2-now)
* [Drawing on how I feel about this expenditure](#drawing-on-how-i-feel-about-this-expenditure)
* [Purchase process](#purchase-process)

Jargon note:

* SIBO = small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, formerly known as
  hydrogen-dominant SIBO

* IMO = intestinal methanogen overgrowth, formerly known as
  methane-dominant SIBO

## Reference material

* [Using FoodMarble's Handheld Breath Tester (Aire) in SIBO. A Game
  Changer?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RBQhUpO3YzQ): This video
  is from August 18, 2022. At this point, the Aire 2 had been
  released, and some of the discussion talks about how the Aire 2
  differs from the original Aire. There's a lot of useful information
  here, including the relationship between their fermentation scores
  and ppm levels. The TL;DW: up to scores of 8, ppm level is 5 times
  the fermentation score. After that the relationship is nonlinear, so
  as to capture the full range of ppm increases for just the 2 points
  from 8 to 10. If hydrogen and methane are separated, this applies to
  each of them individually, allowing for more measurement precision
  for both of them.

  This also shows that at least one clinician seems to use the Aire 2
  regularly for both formal and informal testing. The lack of support
  for hydrogen sulfide is flagged, though.

* [The FoodMarble Testing Device: What it is and How to Use it with
  Aonghos Shortt (Founder and
  CEO)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pADAEnQolKY): This video is
  from January 19, 2023. A lot of the stuff it covers overlaps with
  the preceding video. It again mentions the way the fermentation
  score relates to ppm, confirming what was in the previous video.

  One interesting new thing I learned from this video was that a study
  using the Aire 2 had shown that hydrogen levels had gone up in the
  middle of SIBO treatment, but eventually went down after treatment
  ended.

* [Foodmarble Review: How to Use Aire 2 for IBS and
  SIBO](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u50PEdyV8Lw): This is just an
  illustrative example of how somebody uses the FoodMarble Aire
  2. There's no particular insight from it I want to highlight.

* [Doctor D's Review of the Food
  Marble](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eGp_wAyHTXI): This video
  makes three criticisms of the FoodMarble Aire 2 and of breath
  testing in general:

  * **Variability in transit time between people**, which makes it hard to
    know exactly when the substrate is in the small intestine. People
    with shorter transit times may get false positives because the
    food is already in the large intestine by the 90-minute mark,
    whereas people with longer transit times may get false negatives
    because the food hasn't gone through the small intestine fully.

  * **Interference from previous meals if you don't follow a strict
    prep diet**: Whereas the strict prep diet works for formal
    measurement, the "daily use" aspect of the app can be problematic
    because food from the previous day can still be around in the
    system.

  * **Lack of correlation between the amount of gas produced and the
    severity of symptoms**, particularly for hydrogen (though there
    is some correlation for methane).

* [Well, now I'm confused... **Aire 2 vs. Sibo Lab Test**
  WellnessWednesday](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ey4q9P7UVP0):
  This videos goes over the video author's FoodMarble Aire 2 and
  TrioSmart results, highlighting confusion over how they differ in
  the high range. As one of the comments notes, the discrepancy is
  explained by the fact that the "multiplication by 5" breaks down
  above 8.

## System requirements for the FoodMarble Aire 2

### Android phone with the FoodMarble app on it

I've already installed the FoodMarble app on my Android phone. I
installed it with the selection that I don't have a device yet, but I
will change that selection if and when I get the Aire 2.

### Bluetooth support

The phone also needs to support Bluetooth LE (low energy). I verified
from
[Quora](https://www.quora.com/What-Android-phones-will-support-Bluetooth-low-energy)
that Android has been supporting Bluetooth LE since Android
4. Further, I verified that my phone does have a Bluetooth section. It
doesn't clearly say that it has Bluetooth LE specifically, but the
options provided seem consistent with it being LE.

## Cost-benefit analysis of getting the FoodMarble Aire 2 now

### Potential benefit: some basic insight into whether I have IMO

Even if it's not very precise, and even with some informal testing, I
should be able to get a general sense of whether my methane levels are
concerning.

According to the North American Consensus
([reference](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28323273/) but it doesn't
have the full text for free, or check out the [summary on Rupa
Health](https://www.rupahealth.com/post/sibo-testing-101-a-complete-guide-to-the-top-3-sibo-tests)),
the criterion for IMO is "methane level is at least 10 ppm at any time
point during the (2-3 hour) test" after a proper prep diet / fasting
followed by consuming the substrate drink (glucose or
lactulose). While doing a prep diet is a pain, I can at least start by
seeing if I'm regularly exceeding 15-20 ppm (methane fermentation
score of 3-4) as part of my regular daily cycle. If I'm doing that, it
would create a flag for further investigation. The good thing about
methane measurement is that it's easier than hydrogen: I'm just
measuring the level, whereas for hydrogen, the measurement is of the
*increase* in level at a very specific time range (1-2 hours after
eating) to capture hydrogen production specifically in the small
intestine.

Moreover, once I have the device, if I do see concerning indications
of potentially high levels of methane, I can put in the effort to do a
prep diet and take measurements after that.

### Potential benefit: some insight into whether I have SIBO

As with IMO, I can use the device to see if I have SIBO. However, it
is a little harder to interpret SIBO results since it involves careful
measurement at several time points after eating to see the
pattern. Specifically, I need to see if there's a significant increase
in hydrogen levels by about 20 ppm or higher between "before I start
eating" and 60-90 minutes after I finish eating.

### Potential benefit: measure if resuming some FODMAP foods seems to trigger increases in hydrogen and methane, and use that to provide further confirmation/disconfirmation 

Currently I'm abstaining from lentils, peas, sauerkraut, and
broccoli. I would like to experiment with resuming these foods and see
if symptoms get worse. If the symptoms do get worse, it will be
interesting to see the extent to which increased levels of hydrogen
and methane accompany the worsening of symptoms.

If my symptoms worsen and the hydrogen (respectively methane) levels
also spike in a way that correlates with the worsening of symptoms,
then the SIBO (respectively IMO) hypothesis would be worth digging
into in more depth.

If my symptoms worsen after resuming FODMAP foods but I don't see an
increase in hydrogen (respectively, methane) levels within the
relevant timescales, then it seems unlikely that SIBO (respectively,
IMO) is behind things. This will allow me to set aside further
research in this area and focus on potential other causes.

If my symptoms don't worsen but the hydrogen (respectively, methane)
levels do shoot up, then it may be that in the past, there were other
factors increasing my visceral hypersensitivity, but the underlying
factors elevating hydrogen and methane levels still exist. I would
then have to strategize whether to take action around the
currently-dormant maybe-SIBO/IMO.

### Potential benefit: under cases where I feel a little off, take a quick measurement and potentially avoid FODMAP foods if my baseline levels are high

For instance, if I had a lot of FODMAP foods yesterday, even if I
don't feel any symptoms right now, take a measurement to see what my
levels are before I cook or eat further meals for the next few days.

This means that even if for the current iteration of troubles, I rule
out SIBO/IMO, I can keep an eye out for them in the future.
 

### Potential cost/risk: no coverage of hydrogen sulfide

Hydrogen sulfide is not covered by the Aire 2. There's no competing
device as far as I can make out. So, it's unfortunate that it doesn't
currently cover hydrogen sulfide, which is the third gas implicated in
these digestive issues.

It's possible that a future version of the Aire, or a competing device
from another manufacturer, will cover hydrogen sulfide. If I knew that
such a device were coming out in a month or two, it would makes sense
to wait for it. However, I haven't seen any hints of such an imminent
release, and in the absence of that, I feel like it doesn't make sense
to wait.

### Potential cost/risk: the device doesn't work at all

In such a case, I expect to be able to return the device and get a
refund, or possibly a replacement device.

### Potential cost/risk: the device consistently gives readings that are way off (too low or too high) and lead me to incorrectly pursue or rule out SIBO/IMO

This risk exists, particularly if the specific device I get is buggy
for some reason. I would say this is the biggest risk, but I think the
chances of this are low. I do wonder if there is some way to validate
it in a chemistry lab.

### Potential cost/risk: the device wears out / ages out due to overuse

I didn't get clarity on how long the device is expected to last. In
some of the videos in the reference material, it was suggested to not
regularly use the device more than 10 times in a day. It was also
mentioned that the device does wear out over time. However, its usage
isn't sufficiently widespread to get a clear sense of how long it is
expected to last.

## Drawing on how I feel about this expenditure

### My experience with purchasing other instruments

I've bought four medical measurement devices in the past few years:

* 2021: no-contact forehead thermometer (about $20 plus tax)
* 2023: pulse oximeter (about $23 plus tax)
* 2024: blood pressure measurement machine (about $60 plus tax)
* 2024: stethoscope (about $21 plus tax)

All of these are fairly standard measurement devices, so their cost is
relatively low compared to the FoodMarble Aire 2. Even so, I think my
experience with them over time is helpful in terms of giving a sense
of the value I derive from measurement devices.

* The no-contact forehead thermometer has been useful in particular
  for monitoring my reaction to vaccines as well as monitoring my
  inflammation after injury and after cleaning out a bird's nest. It's
  helped complement my native sense of feeling feverish. Even though
  its readings are sometimes a bit inaccurate, I have been able to
  work around this by taking multiple measurements of different parts
  of the forehead. Overall, even with the three years of use so far, I
  think it's been well worth the cost of $20 that I paid for it.

* The pulse oximeter has been useful for getting quick reads of my
  heart rate and SpO2, helping me confirm or disconfirm a feeling that
  my heart was beating fast. I wish I'd had it with me back when I
  felt that the antibiotic was raising my heart rate to 80 bpm. The
  pulse oximeter has also been useful for understanding the effect of
  exercise, breath holds, and meals on my heart rate. Overall, even
  with just the one year of use so far, it's been well worth the $23
  or so I paid for it. And since I hope that it lasts another 3-5
  years at least, it should be well worth it.

  I like that I can build a history of readings from the device, as I have
  been doing at
  [pulse_oximeter_readings.sql](../../sql/pulse_oximeter_readings.sql).

* The blood pressure measurement machine has been useful for taking
  regular blood pressure readings, as well as monitoring blood
  pressure when I'm not feeling well. I've been able to confirm that
  my at-home seated blood pressure has not gone up much even when I'm
  not feeling well, which has been reassuring and has eliminated some
  potential sources of concern. I would say that I've already gotten
  at least $20 worth of value from it over three months, compared to
  the $60 that I spent on it, and assuming that it continues to work
  for another 3-5 years, it will be well worth the $60.

  I like that I can build a history of readings from the device, as I have
  been doing at
  [blood_pressure_readings.sql](../../sql/blood_pressure_readings.sql).

* The stethoscope is something I am less sure of. I spent about $21 on
  it, but so far I have only used to to verify that yes, I do hear my
  heart beat and yes, I do hear bowel sounds. I am not totally sure it
  will pay off over the long term, but sine it doesn't even use
  batteries it should basically last forever, which means that even a
  few dollars of value per year would make it pay off.

### My health care virtual fund

I recently implemented a virtual fund setup where I allocate money
periodically into various expense categories, and then consider my
spending to be virtually allocated from that virtual fund. This
virtual fund does not cover expenses on health-related stuff such as
health insurance, supplements, and food. With the current iteration of
this, I have about $2,500 left in the fund, not counting the upcoming
end-of-2024 top-up; in previous years I have used top-ups of $1,250
per year. Spending about $250 on a device that should hopefully last
more than a year seems well worth it.

### How I feel about where the money is going

Overall, even if this purchase turns out to not be worth it for me
specifically (for instance, I independently discover some reason why I
don't expect to have SIBO or IMO at all, even without the need to do
the test), I feel pretty decent about having my money go toward this
kind of device. I think it's a good innovative effort and I think the
problem it targets is an important one.

I feel much better about this, for instance, than about spending more
than double the cost of this device *every month* on my health
insurance (my utilization of health insurance is very little, limited
to vaccines and occasional medications -- the insurance is a HDHP so
effectively I have to pay for urgent care visits out of pocket.

I also feel better about this than about paying over $900 on the
urgent care trip plus tests. In hindsight, I could have just gotten
the tests done for about $330, and I could have taken the blood
pressure readings at home. I did learn a bit about the medical system
by making the trip, so I don't regret it per se, but I very much
prefer paying for a device that I can use at home.

## Purchase process

After going through the decision process, I decided to place the
order. I initially almost went through the order, then remembered that
earlier in the day, I had signed up for the mailing list and had seen
an offer for 10% off, so I went back and redid the order to use the
10% off.

I skipped the option of getting expedited delivery (for an extra $9)
so all in all the order cost me $224, with expected delivery between
August 28 and September 2.

Let's see when and how I get it!
