# 2024-04-03: dental cleaning

On Wednesday 2024-04-03, I went to Total Health Dental Care at 3017
Telegraph Avenue for a regular dental cleaning at 1 PM. The previous
dental cleaning had been on
[2023-09-27](../2023/2023-09-27-dental-cleaning.md). The next dental
cleaning would be on [2024-10-09](2024-10-09-dental-cleaning.md).

Sections of this document:

* [Prior preparation](#prior-preparation)
* [Appointment](#appointment)
* [Feedback](#feedback)
* [Subjective assessment](#subjective-assessment)
* [Aftereffects and followup](#aftereffects-and-followup)

## Prior preparation

I did not do any special prior preparation. The main cautionary step I
took prior to the appointment was to skip having walnuts and
sauerkrauts for the two meals that fell within the 24 hours prior to
appointment, i.e., the evening meal on 2024-04-02 and the morning meal
on 2024-04-03.

## Appointment

### Intake steps

Prior to the appointment, I had to check in. When I arrived at the
location, the in-person staff was out for lunch, so I was connected
via teleconferencing to a tele-check-in person, who took my details
and then sent me a few forms to fill and update. I finished these
check-in procedures. The membership renewal payment itself was
deferred to after the appointment once the staff had returned.

### X-rays

Once the hygienist was ready, she first took my X-rays. My last normal
X-rays had been taking in the [2022-12-21 dental
cleaning](2022-12-21-dental-cleaning.md); another set of X-rays had
been taken as part of my wisdom tooth removal, but these were a
different sort of X-rays (panoramic). So, the hygienist took my
regular X-rays.

### Gum review

The hygienist probed my gumline to get an overall assessment of the
state of my gums. The probes didn't hurt me, and after doing the
review she declared that my gumline looked good.

### Polishing

The hygienist started with polishing my teeth, including the front and
back of all teeth.

After the cleaning waas over, I asked the hygienist for the reason for
polishing first. See the section on [stained teeth](#stained-teeth) for more.

### Scraping/scaling (interrupted by doctor dropping by)

The hygienist then proceeded to do a bunch of scraping/scaling of the
teeth. Some of this was done with irrigation / air blowing, but not
all.

The doctor came in the middle of the procedure for a review of the
X-ray results and of my teeth.

### Flossing and air blowing

The hygienist did fossing of my teeth and then did a final round of
air blowing.

### Conclusion

After the appointment, I asked the hygienist a few questions. Her
feedback is included in the [feedback section](#feedback).

She also confirmed my next appointment for Wednesday, October 9, at 1 PM.

### Payment

After being done with the appointment, I proceeded to talk to the
front desk. I had a credit of $266 that was applied against my
membership fee, and I got a membership for a year.

## Feedback

### Dentist feedback about recession

The dentist said that overall, my teeth look fine. I asked her about
the recession that she had commented on last time. She said that the
recession level doesn't seem to have worsened much since last time
(this time's data was based on visual examination; last time's data
was from the chart), but that they would do another set of measurements
at my next visit 6 months from now and then do a fuller comparison to
see the trend.

Based on the pattern of which teeth had the most recession, she
suspected that there may be an issue with grinding my teeth. She asked
me if I had noticed myself grinding my teeth. I said I noticed it
occasionally but not often. She said that it's possible (though not
clear if that's the case) that I might be grinding
subconsciously. It's also possible that I used to grind more and am
not grinding that much now, which is why it's not worsened much. She
said that people who grind a lot at night can improve things by using
a dental guard at night.

She didn't mention overbrushing, something that she had brought up
last time.

I asked her if eating lots of nuts could cause the issues, and she
didn't think so.

She confirmed, upon my asking, that recession cannot naturally get
better over time, only worse, and that the only way to make it better
is by doing tissue grafting surgery.

### General hygienist feedback

The hygienist said that my teeth and gums look healthy, and she didn't
find any particular area of the teeth that was bad. She included
general cautions recommended that I continue flossing regularly, and
pay particular attention to flossing areas where I experience pain and
bleeding.

### Stained teeth

The hygienist said that since my teeth were a bit more stained, she
did the polishing first, so that it could polish over the stains,
thereby reducing the amount of work that the scraping/scaling needed
to do. If the teeth aren't that stained, it makes sense to
scrape/scale first and polish later so that the polish is fresh and
doesn't get scraped off.

The hygienist said that the staining wasn't a problem in and of itself
(the implicit assumption likely being that I would come for the
six-monthly cleaning) but if I cared about it, she recommended using a
toothpaste with baking soda, such as the Arm and Hammer toothpaste, as
that has more grittiness that can wear off the stains.

## Subjective assessment

### Good cooperativeness and very little pain

During the probing and cleaning process, I didn't experience any pain,
nor did I experience fatigue from keeping my mouth open. In general, I
was able to open my mouth wide enough for the hygienist and didn't get
any complaints or offers for a mouth prop.

The lack of pain might reflect good gum health. The lack of fatigue
from keeping my mouth open might be a result of some practice with
widely opening my mouth that I did over the past week.

The main source of discomfort was from the irrigation building up
water in my mouth, some of which I ended up swallowing to address the
discomfort.

### Teeth feeling somewhat cleaner and lighter but no big effect

While my teeth did feel a little cleaner and lighter, the effect
didn't seem huge.

### Mouth feeling a bit dryer after the procedure

My mouth felt a bit dryer after the procedure, something I did not
quite put a finger on in the inital hours after it. I had a more
conscious awareness of this around 4:45 PM so I deliberately drank
more water to address it.

## Aftereffects and followup

### Greater saliva production

The night of the cleaning (2024-04-03), I had some drool, which I
don't usually have. The next day (2024-04-04), around 2 PM (shortly
after having a long 2-hour meeting where I talked for a large
proportion of it), I started explicitly noting excess
salivation. There was a bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy to it once I
started noticing,
cf. [this](https://www.quora.com/Why-does-my-saliva-glands-overproduce-when-I-m-being-self-conscious-anxious-causing-me-to-gulp-a-lot),
but I think there was some genuine underlying increase not driven by
noticing. The night of 2024-04-04, I had more drool.

On 2024-04-05, the salivation reduced though it still seemed above
normal. On the night of 2024-04-05, I had some drool though comparable
to 2024-04-03 and less than 2024-04-04. I still had a bit of drool
after waking up on 2024-04-06, while still a little sleepy, that I was
fortunately able to catch.

On 2024-04-06, my salivation was a little less than on 2024-04-05, but
still seemed way above normal. The overnight situation on 2024-04-06
seemed approximately similar to the overnight situation on 2024-04-05.

On 2024-04-07, I continued to have excess saliva production, but
subjectively it felt slightly improved compared to the previous two
days. I came up with the following way to estimate my excess saliva
production: how long did I have to wait between successive saliva
swallows? In the morning and early afternoon on 2024-04-07, the
interval was somewhere between 10 and 20 minutes. My subjective sense
is that during the peak of the issue on 2024-04-05, the interval was
less than 5 minutes.

On the evening of 2024-04-07, I was experiencing slight pains that
seemed to come from my left lower teeth, but that I suspected were not
actually coming from there. I did a bunch of massaging of my masseter
muscle, that seemed to be sore, and the pain reduced. The muscle on
the left side was significantly sorer than on the right side, and
massaging it did seem to release the pain. So I suspect the pain is
coming from that area and is being incorrectly attributed to the
teeth.

On the night of 2024-04-07, I did have some excess salivation (that I
needed to swallow) but no drooling, suggesting that the excess saliva
wasn't enough to cause drooling, though it could also mean that I was
more used to pulling it in.

2024-04-08 proceeded mostly similarly to 2024-04-07, with no clear
improvement over 2024-04-07 but still significantly better than
2024-04-04 afternoon to 2024-04-06.

The night of 2024-04-08 was fairly similar to the night of 2024-04-07,
but I did end up having a bit of drooling toward the end on my left
side.

2024-04-09 felt like an improvement over previous days, with periods
of a few hours in between where I didn't seem to have excess
salivation, though other periods were similar to previous days.

The night of 2024-04-09 was good -- I didn't have any drooling. I had
a little bit of excess salivation that I was able to swallow.

2024-04-10 felt like it continued to be an improvement, even better
than 2024-04-09. I was able to have an online meeting for over 3 hours
that involved a reasonable amount of talking.

The night of 2024-04-10 was mostly good but i did drool a bit on my
left side in the early morning. I'm not sure what's going on with the
alternate-day left-side drooling. I'll see if the pattern continues.

2024-04-11 continued to be decent in the daytime, comparable to
2024-04-10. However, I did have a bit more jaw pain for parts of the
day than in previous days, and I did some massaging to address it.

On the night of 2024-04-11, I didn't drool for most of the night but
did drool a little bit in the morning, breaking my alternating days
streak.

2024-04-12 felt like a pretty normal day. I still had a bit of excess
saliva but it didn't seem to come in my way.

On the night of 2024-04-12, I had some excess saliva toward the end,
and drooled a little bit on each side about an hour before waking
up. The volume of drool was small and it had dried by the time I woke
up.

2024-04-13 continued to be a fairly normal day, other than a little
bit of attention issues in the afternoon that could happen under
ordinary circumstances as well.

On the night of 2024-04-13, I had drool issues early on (on my right
side) and then right when I was woken up by the alarm (on my left
side).

On 2024-04-14, until around 4 PM, I didn't have any noticeable
symptoms related ot salivation. However, after doing my breath hold
exercises (four breath holds each of at least 20 seconds), I noticed
an increase in salivation, comparable to the levels seen a few days
ago. I think the breath holds set me back a little bit so it may be
wiser to not do multiple back-to-back breath holds in this way until I
am fully recovered. The situation returned to my general average of
the past few days after I finished my bath at night (for the 15
minutes or so between that and sleeping).

Overnight on 2024-04-14, I had a bit of drooling in between but none
when I was about to wake up.

On 2024-04-15, the daytime was pretty normal; however, after dinner I
was feeling more fatigued than usual, with pain in my jaw. After my
bath this pain reduced and things were normal-ish by the time I went
to sleep. While I did have slight excess salivation, this was
manageable and didn't get in my way.

On the night of 2024-04-15, I had excess salivation and maybe a little
bit of drooling though I was able to swallow back for the most part.

On 2024-04-16, the daytime was pretty normal; I did have some excess
salivation but it was't extreme enough to get in my way. In the
evening, I had some jaw pain as usual, though not as pronounced as the
previous day. The pain reduced after my bath.

On the night of 2024-04-16, I had excess salivation and maybe a little
bit of drooling though I was able to swallow back for the most part.

On 2024-04-17, the daytime was pretty normal; I did have some excess
salivation but it was't extreme enough to get in my way. I also felt
fairly high-energy in the evening (despite a little jaw pain), which
might be due to my strategically skipping strength exercises.

On the night of 2024-04-17, I had excess salivation and maybe a little
bit of drooling though I was able to swallow back for the most part,
except right before I woke up.

NOTE: Starting 2024-04-18, I am no longer updating here daily. I still
have a bit of excess salivation, night-time/early-morning drooling,
and jaw pain but both are within a range I can work with. I might post
occasional status updates regarding the trajectory of my recovery.

UPDATE 2024-04-26: Weirdly, I experienced an increase in salivation on
the evening of 2024-04-26, the day after my [abdominal
pain](2024-04-25-abdominal-pain.md). This was way less than the peak
of salivation I had experienced in the past, but the resurgence was
weird. I don't know if this was a continuation of the old issues or a
totally new issue.

### Digestive issues

I had minor disruptions to my digestion starting around 2024-04-08
that I believe to be aftereffects of this, though they could be for
other reasons.

### Photosensitivity

My times of greatest jaw pain / masseter muscle tension were also
accompanied by an increase in photosensitivity, particularly the ones
that happened at night. Fortunately, I was able to work in relatively
low-light conditions where I didn't trigger the photosensitivity,
though working with bright screens some of the time was painful.

See
[2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md](2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md)
for some relevant historical background.

### Internet research

According to the Internet, the greater saliva production after teeth
cleaning is normal. For instance,
[this](https://wellsfamilydental.com/drooling-after-teeth-cleaning/)
says:

> First and foremost, drooling after teeth cleaning is completely
> normal. Since this procedure stimulates your oral tissues with
> pressure, you’ll produce more saliva than usual and drool as a
> result.

In my case, the overnight drooling was likely for that reason, and the
excess salivation the next afternoon was likely due to a mix of that
and the long duration of talking.

I also found [this research
article](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5894825/) that
sheds light on the stress on the masseter muscle after prolonged
maximal jaw opening, and thereby suggests that in the future, I should
try not to keep my mouth open too long and continuously:

> Results

> Prolonged jaw opening significantly increased nocifensive head
> withdrawal to mechanical stimuli at 2 hours, and days 3 and 7
> postinduction (P < .05). The increase in nociceptive response
> resolved after 14 days. Sustained jaw opening also stimulated
> differential cytokine expression in the trigeminal ganglion and
> upper cervical spinal cord that persisted 14 days postprocedure (P <
> .05).

> Conclusion

> These findings provide evidence that near maximal jaw opening can
> lead to activation and prolonged sensitization of trigeminal neurons
> that results in nociceptive behavior evoked by stimulation of the
> masseter muscle, a physiologic event often associated with
> temporomandibular disorders (TMD).

### Monitoring of tooth grinding

See [here](2024-04-tooth-grinding-investigation.md) for more details.
