# 2024-07-21: finger injuries

On 2024-07-21, I had a couple of finger injuries, with the second
injury caused by actions taken to address the first.

## First injury to right middle finger around PIP area (back side)

The first injury was to the right middle finger around the proximal
interphalangeal (PIP) area back side (i.e., the dark side of the
hand). The cut was a horizontal one covering about half the width of
the hand.

I do not know if there was a very specific trigger to this injury, but
it looks like washing my hands right before eating is what triggered
it to start bleeding. My guess is that the cause could be some
combination of strain on the area when carrying stuff back from
shopping, accidental slight paper cuts handling items when shopping,
excessive use of hand sanitizer that morning, and cleaning activities
the previous day. I had applied vaseline to my hands just once that
morning, and probably should have applied it more often given the many
triggers.

I do suspect that there was some sort of paper cut or other sharp cut
but that good application of vaseline or other measures would have
caused it to self-heal without getting to the point where it bled so
much.

## Attempted dealing with the injury: two flex bandages

I attempted to deal with the first injury by applying Band-Aid's
water-proof flex bandage. The bandage lasted me through my meal
(including washing hands before the meal) but came off when washing
hands after the meal. I suspect that the constant bending of my finger
for meal-related activities got in the way of the bandage setting in
properly, causing it to loosen faster than it otherwise would.

I applied a second flex bandage which lasted only for the post-meal
cleanup and dish-washing.

## Second injury to left thumb around PIP area (back side)

To see if I should try a different, bigger-sized bandage, I then tried
to open a larger bandage pack. The edge of it caused a slight paper
cut to the skin area right above the PIP of my left thumb.

## Bandages on both areas

The thumb cut was a much more minor cut, so I just applied a normal
(not waterproof) bandage to it. My expectation was that this bandage
could stay for a couple of hours which should be enough for the wound
to heal and seal and that I would not need further bandaging of the
area.

Also, the bigger bandages I had opened (causing injury to my thumb)
seemed too big to wrap around my right middle finger. So, I decided to
just go ahead with another water-proof flex bandage for my right
middle finger, but this time to take a break from activities involving
water for a couple of hours so that I wouldn't have to change it yet
again.

To give both bandages uninterrupted time to do their magic, I decided
to delay my flossing and rinsing that I would normally do right after
my meal.

## Lessons

* Be wary of contexts where a conjunction of events leads to excessive
  hand sanitizer use. Try to reduce such occurrences, and apply
  vaseline afterward if unavoidable.

* Apply vaseline to hands when returning from shopping and/or after
  finishing unpacking of shopping items.

* Be particularly careful about opening bandage packs -- I shouldn't
  be getting additional injuries when trying to get bandages out for
  existing ones! This was an embarrassing error.
