# 2024-01-21: weight-lifting weight increase

On Friday 2024-01-12, when I went to Walgreens for my COVID vaccine, I bought
a 8 lb dumb bell on the way back; I already had one other 8 lb dumb
bell, so this was my second such dumb bell, allowing for simultaneous
exercise with 8 lb in both hands. However, since I had just received
the vaccine, I took a break from strength exercises for a few days.

On Sunday 2024-01-21, as part of resumed strength exercises, I
exercised with 8 lb dumb bells in both hands for the first time. For
my exercise sequence, I started with the 3 lb dumb bells, then
proceeded to do the same exercises on the 5 lb dumb bells, and finally
did the 8 lb dumb bells. For the 8 lb dumb bells, I could notice that
I was having more trouble completing the full number of repetitions
(15) for one of the exercises, so I called it off at 10, and even for
those 10 I broke it down into parts with a few seconds of rest in
between.

Later in the day, toward the end of my walking return journey from a
shopping trip, I experienced pain in my right shoulder. I was carrying
grocery bags in both hands, and also had a backpack on; the weight of
the bag in my right hand had been a little higher than the weight of
the bag in my left hand for most of the journey. To address this, I
moved both bags to my left hand for a little while, and also moved the
bagpack strap off my right shoulder so that it loosely rested on my
upper right arm. After a little while, I transferred the lighter bag
to my right hand but kept the strap off my right shoulder until I
could get back home and take it all off.
