# 2024-10-02: Atrantil purchase

On 2024-10-02, I purchased Atrantil, a total of 90 capsules. The
recommended dose is about 6 (2 per meal for 3 meals) when trying to
fix issues, and 2-3 for maintenance dosing.

On 2024-10-07, I picked up the purchased Atrantil.

My plan, as of 2024-10-08, was to start experimenting with taking the
Atrantil in a few days, once I have finished my [2024-10-09 dental
cleaning](2024-10-09-dental-cleaning.md).

However, the resurgence of some level of abdomainal pain on 2024-10-08
and 2024-10-09 led me to decide to start with Atrantil on
2024-10-09. I took one capsule on the evening of 2024-10-09, to see if
there was any (positive or negative) reaction. After confirming no
negative reaction, I upped to two capsules the morning of
2024-10-10. I continued at 2 capsules per day until 2024-10-16
(inclusive) and then stopped. For more on the abdominal discomfort
symptoms and their evolution, see
[here](2024-10-08-abdominal-discomfort-and-other-symptoms.md).

On 2024-10-13 (and maybe a few times prior to that) I noticed
occasionally getting a nutty burp where the kind of nut felt different
from the only nut I directly eat (walnuts) so I wonder if that's the
horse chestnut part of Atrantil.

As of 2024-10-17, my plan was to pause for a week (until 2024-10-23
inclusive) after which I will decide whether to resume on an ongoing
basis, resume only in case of symptoms above some threshold, resume as
an occasionally consumed supplement, or resume prior to specific
events (as a prophylactic).

On 2024-10-19, I took two capsules, going against my original pausing
plan. This was in response to [anal
swelling](2024-10-17-anal-swelling.md). I decided the next day that it
made sense to continue going with the Atrantil for a 20-day period
(until 2024-11-07 inclusive) to gauge the effects of a "full course",
while keeping in mind the possibility of stopping in case of adverse
effects.
