# 2024-10-09: dental cleaning

On Wednesday 2024-10-09, I went to Total Health Dental Care at 3017
Telegraph Avenue for a regular dental cleaning at 1 PM. The previous
dental cleaning had been on
[2024-04-03](2024-04-03-dental-cleaning.md).

Sections of this document:

* [Prior preparation](#prior-preparation)
* [Appointment](#appointment)
* [Feedback and discussion](#feedback-and-discussion)
* [Aftereffects and followup](#aftereffects-and-followup)

## Prior preparation

### Pause to intense and hard foods

* 2024-10-01 (first meal): I had my last sauerkraut before the dental
  cleaning. I had already stopped kimchi for about two weeks due to
  other issues.

* 2024-10-03 (first meal): I had my last round of walnuts before the
  dental cleaning. I only had a small number of walnuts, less than my
  usual serving size, on account of speaking a lot before the meal and
  being delayed with eating my meal.

### Mirror and photos

On 2024-10-07, after picking up a recently purchased intraoral camera
and dental mirror, I examined my back teeth with the dental mirror. I
also took photos of the front and back teeth with the intraoral camera
and saved them into Google Drive and
[GitHub](https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health-private/tree/master/self-photos/dental/2024-10-07). The
photos were in this order:

* First I did the back, then the front

* Within each, I did the top (maxillary) first and the bottom (mandibular) later

* Within each, I did left, then middle, then right

A few things I noticed:

* There was clear calculus forming at the joining area between the
  teeth and gums, though it varied a little bit between the teeth. The
  side back teeth seemed worse.

* I could see some black stains on the top back left teeth. This seems
  consistent with what my hygienist had mentioned last time about
  staining, but I hadn't registered that the stains were black. See
  [this
  thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/Dentistry/comments/eeryr5/what_are_these_black_lines_on_the_back_of_my_teeth/)
  for some related information.

### List of things to discuss

Questions for dentist and hygienist:

* Salivation after previous cleaning -- any best practices to follow
  to reduce the risk?

* Recession chart

* Black stain in back upper left tooth

Questions for receptionist / check-out:

* Membership renewal process

## Appointment

### Intake steps

I arrived at the appointment location at 12:45 PM. I did the check-in
with the receptionist. I also had her set my membership to auto-renew
on 2025-04-03 (one year after I had reactivated it at my previous
dental cleaning appointment), and also confirmed that I had the
flexibility to cancel the decision until the renewal date.

### Rinse, health questionnaire check, gum review and periodontal chart

Shortly after 1 PM, the hygienist called me in. She first asked me to
rinse using the prepared mouthwash solution, which I did.

She took a quick look at my health questionnaire (that I had last
updated last time) and confirmed that there are no meaningful updates
to my medications and allergies.

She asked me if I have any questions and I listed the stuff about the
black stain and excess salivation, to be discussed when the dentist
would come for the exam.

She then reviewed my gums and did my periodontal chart.

### Polishing

The hygienist started with polishing my teeth, including the front and
back of all teeth. She mentioned that the polish would cover the black
stains.

### Scraping/scaling (interrupted by doctor dropping by)

hygienist then proceeded to do a bunch of scraping/scaling of the
teeth. Some of this was done with irrigation / air blowing, but not
all.

### Exam by doctor

For the exam, the doctor poked around my teeth with a scraper. She
also asked me to open my mouth wide, while having her fingers around
my masseter, likely to check the head and neck alignment and salivary
gland activation.

### Flossing and air blowing

The hygienist did flossing of my teeth and then did a final round of
air blowing.

### Ozone treatment

The hygienist told me that all cleanings now come with the option of
free ozone treatment. She asked me if I was interested. After
confirming that it was quick, I assented. She got the ozone device and
applied it in a couple of minutes.

### Conclusion

The hygienist confirmed that the next appointment was scheduled for
Wednesday 2025-04-16 at 1 PM. I had already received a text message to
this effect a few minutes after my intake.

## Feedback and discussion

### Discussion of black stains

I explained to the dentist and hygienist that I had seen black stains
on the back of my upper left teeth. The hygienist confirmed these and
mentioned that the staining had been similar/worse previously. I
mentioned to the dentist and hygienist that I had recently gotten a
dental mirror so that I was able to see the stains more clearly. I
also clarified that my Internet research suggested that the black
stains aren't an issue, but I wanted to get confirmation.

The dentist mentioned that the hygienist had already done a good job
covering up the stain.

According to the hygienist (in separate discussion before the
dentist's arrival) the black stains don't pose any risk as long as
they are contained; however, if they grow too much, they have the
potential to increase the rate of plaque accumulation and reduce the
useful surface of the tooth. A six-monthly dental cleaning should be
enough to get rid of the black stains so that this sort of thing isn't
an issue. The hygienist was also reasonably convinced that any stains
that look roughly like this shouldn't be concerning.

We also discussed the occasional use of baking soda toothpastes. The
hygienist said that such occasional use could reduce the rate of
staining, but I needed to be careful in light of my recession.

Relatedly, we talked about the polishing step and whether that was
purely cosmetic. The hygienist said that it was indeed mostly
cosmetic, but it had some therapeutic benefit of getting rid of the
stains. It was basically similar to using baking soda toothpaste in
terms of providing a grittiness.

All of the information I received here was consistent with the
feedback about stained teeth in the previous appointment (see
[here](2024-04-03-dental-cleaning.md#stained-teeth)) as well as what I
had gathered from the Reddit thread linked earlier in this doc ([this
thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/Dentistry/comments/eeryr5/what_are_these_black_lines_on_the_back_of_my_teeth/)).

### Discussion of excess saliva production

The hygienist had not heard of the idea of excess saliva production,
so discussion was deferred to when the dentist came. I explained my
hypothesis, namely that in the last appointment, I had kept my mouth
open for too long, and didn't close it in the interim when the
hygienist was not working on my teeth, and somehow the continuous
opening triggered excess saliva production. I mentioned that it kicked
in about 24 hours after the cleaning, and took about two weeks to
subside.

The dentist found this to be as expected; she said that what likely
happened is that keeping the mouth open for too long dried it out,
which caused the salivary glands to go in overdrive.

The hygienist mentioned that in the past, I had needed a mouth prop to
keep my mouth wide open. I mentioned that for this past appointment
that hadn't been needed, but I might have overcorrected by keeping my
mouth wide open, and not closing it in between.

In this appointment, I made sure to close my mouth in between when the
hygienist wasn't working, and to not open it wider than needed for the
specific step.

Perhaps prompted by the discussion, the dentist did examine my saliva
production (see the section [exam by doctor](#exam-by-doctor) above)
and confirmed it to be normal.

### Discussion of recession

The dentist mentioned that my recession was relatively localized to
teeth 11-14 (upper left) and 21 (lower left). She recommended
consulting the periodontist in the Oakland office who could provide me
more information on tissue graft options, including pricing. The
consultation would be free given my membership.

The dentist's view was that the recession was likely hereditary and
may have been exacerbated by overbrushing.

She also thought that the tissue graft would be a one-and-done
procedure rather than something I needed to get done regularly.

She also asked me if I experience sensitivity in my teeth. I responded
that I don't. The context (per my prior background, not explicitly
discussed) is that recession can eventually lead to sensitivity as
more and more of the sensitive surface of the tooth (that's meant to
be under the gumline) gets exposed.

### Mouth bite consultation question

I asked the dentist if they would be the right people to go to in case
of a mouth bite in an area other than the teeth, such as the lips and
cheek, or whether I should be going to an oral surgeon. She said that
their office would be the first place to come to, and depending on the
initial assessment, if needed, they would recommend consulting an oral
surgeon.

For context, I mentioned that I had had a mouth bite that healed
quickly, but had been wondering what I should do if it didn't heal.

### Overall feedback

The dentist and hygienist both said that my oral health seemed
good. They confirmed no structural issues with the teeth, other than
the recession, no issues with the gums, no issues with saliva
production, and good head/neck/jaw alignment.

## Aftereffects and followup

### Examination with dental mirror and intraoral camera

At around 4:15 PM, I examined my back teeth with the dental mirror. I
then also took photos of my teeth with the intraoral camera and saved
them to Google Drive and GitHub.

The order of photos was similar to last time:

* First I did the back, then the front

* Within each, I did the top (maxillary) first and the bottom (mandibular) later

* Within each, I did left, then middle, then right

Unfortunately, the lighting conditions and angles did not match up
with last time, making a direct comparison difficult. However, I did
notice a few broad differences:

* The black stains were fewer and smaller than before. With the
  mirror, I didn't even notice the staining on the back left, only a
  small stain on the back right.

* There was a clear reduction in the color gradient of the tooth;
  prior to cleaning, the tooth was white around the crown and became
  yellower, with spots of what is probably calculus, near the
  root. The color gradient is now mostly gone, and the connection of
  the tooth to the gum is very clean and looks similar to the crown. I
  did, however, see a few small spots that might be calculus that
  remain.

* Maybe there is more saliva (as seen in the bubbles and froth in the
  photos). But the comparison here is harder because saliva can move
  around within the mouth and can be temporarily swallowed, so it's
  not as stable a readout as calculus or stains.
