# 2024-07-18: excessive morning activity and abdominal pain in the afternoon

## Summary of symptoms

Overall, this was a case of intermittent abdominal pain, along with
other symptoms that fall in the LEGIT category but don't rise to the
level of SERIOUS:

* More burping than usual (LEGIT)

* Occasional flatulence, generally very small amounts (LEGIT)

* Audible abdominal activity in some mornings (LEGIT)

* Abdominal heaviness (subjective)

There were no serious symptoms such as visible bloating (though my
symptoms did match some of what might be described as "bloating"),
muscle guarding, palpation pain, and rebound tenderness. There was no
clear disruption to my bowel movement cycle, bowel characteristics, or
urine characteristics.

The effect on my overall productivity and output was minimal except to
the extent that my increased sleep time reduces my hours o do work; if
anything my output in the beginning (before I started enforcing more
sleep) was a little higher than usual though that was probably for
unrelated reasons.

The symptoms mostly correlated with each other, so were highest
together and receded together.

## Background from the previous night

It's rather hot during the afternoon, and I needed to stock up on
food, so in anticipation of needing to go out shopping in the morning,
I went to sleep a little earlier (by about 1.5 hours) compared to my
usual. Specifically, I went to sleep around 10:30 PM, compared to the
past few days of about midnight (ironically, the late sleeping time in
the recent past was itself driven by the heat making it hard to go to
sleep earlier).

## Background on morning activity

I woke up around 6:40 AM, about 1.5 hours earlier than usual, which
was likely because of sleeping earlier.

Since I woke up early enough, I decided to both go jogging *and* do my
morning shopping trip.

I needed to be back home for a meeting at 10:30 AM. The way this ended
up working out is that I went jogging from 8:20 AM to 8:45 AM, then
got back and headed out pretty quickly thereafter shortly after 9
AM. I got back around 10:20 AM, just in time for my meeting.

Overall, I walked + jogged almost 5 miles, with jogging making up
about 1.7 miles. Fortunately, I didn't carry back a heavy load of
stuff. But keep in mind that this 5 miles was before I had eaten
anything in the morning.

Then, after coming back home, I did my meeting, then wrapped up a few
items, then proceeded with my potatoes prep. I was finally done and
started eating my first meal of the day at around 1:15 PM. I also did
a meeting with a couple of work colleagues while eating, and the
eating and meeting wrapped up around 2:20 PM.

Given the large amount of running + walking, I probably ended up
eating a bit more than usual.

## Experience later in the afternoon

I felt heaviness in my abdomen (likely my stomach area) and didn't
feel very energetic. Later, that translated to a bit of abdominal
pain. The pain was lesser when standing and moving around.

A few other complications:

* It was a little hot but not too hot in the afternoon, which may have
  added to my fatigue and lethargy.

* The meal itself had potatoes, peas, broccoli, kale, and sauerkraut,
  all of which can be heavy on the stomach. But it was my typical meal
  -- nothing unusual.

* In the previous days, I had experienced some stomach discomfort due
  to excess lemon consumption and the consumption of lentils.

The heaviness didn't get to a distracting level of pain, and I had my
second meal without incident a litle after 6 PM.

## Next day (2024-07-19)

On 2024-07-19, things were fine in the morning. I still went out
jogging and jogged a good amount (about 1.7 miles, 0.3 miles return
walk). I experienced some abdominal pain later in the afternoon. It
was less than on 2024-07-18, but there was also more heat-related
fatigue and disorientation, so on net I may have felt worse. With that
said, my productivity/output seemed pretty good, and I executed on
both physical and mental work.

## Two days later (2024-07-20)

On this day, I had to go shopping, so I skipped jogging in the morning
to avoid the fiasco of 2024-07-18.

I did breath holds in the morning before going shopping, and perhaps
because of that, felt a little out-of-breath initially when
walking. However, I was back to normal later in the journey.

When I got back, I took a pulse oximeter reading, getting 55-67 bpm
with the typical range being 59-64 bpm.

## Three days later (2024-07-21)

This day I again pulled something vaguely similar to 2024-07-18: I
went jogging, then did strength exercises, then shortly after that I
went shopping.

However, the jogging was a little less extreme (about 1.5 miles
jogging / 0.5 miles walking), I rested a few minutes before going out,
and my outside trip was not as far off. So, I did not have the same
degree of fatigue-causing stimuli.

However, I had [finger injuries](2024-07-21-finger-injuries.md) that
caused me some physical and mental stress. Also, due to these, I was
trying to space out my urination (to give the finger injury time to
heal). These factors may have been responsible for an increase in
abdominal discomfort toward the later afternoon, and a reduced
appetite for my second meal of the day. There was a brief period where
I was feeling particularly crappy, though it didn't last too long.

## Four days later (2024-07-22)

On 2024-07-22, I was mostly fine but did experience slight discomfort
off and on, and more pronounced discomfort a few times.

## Five days later (2024-07-23)

On 2024-07-23, I again experienced slight discomfort and it was a
little more acute later in the day.

## Six days later (2024-07-24)

Factor X applied.

Going to sleep on the night of 2024-07-23, I had been thinking of
skipping exercise on 2024-07-24 to give myself more room for a fuller
recovery. I ended up doing this on the morning of 2024-07-24. I also
stayed in bed a little longer than my natural inclination, to get the
benefits of more sleep.

Already on the morning of 2024-07-24, I was feeling a little more
pronounced and frequent discomfort than the past two days. This
continued low-key through the day. I don't know if this was due to the
deliberate decision to have a slow day and not go out, and don't know
if this represents a worsening or is the recovery process in action.

## Seven days later (2024-07-25)

Having gone to sleep early the previous night (2024-07-24), I stayed
in bed a little longer, so that I got over 8.5 hours in bed.

I did all my usual exercises, including jogging and strength exercises.

I did notice what felt like excess stomach acid (as evidenced by
burping and a little bit of flatulence), but it wasn't
super-pronounced, and it only got a little more pronounced due to
delays with eating. It was fine after eating and didn't get in the way
of my mood for most of the day.

## Eight days later (2024-07-26)

I was feeling worse on this day (between my first and second meal)
than the previous day. I narrowed down two causes of the difference:

* I had gotten more sleep overnight on the previous day.

* I consumed vegan probiotic yogurt in the first meal on the previous
  day, and didn't consume it in the first meal on this day.

I remedied the second factor by consuming vegan probiotic yogurt in
the second meal, and I did feel relatively better (almost as well as
the previous day) in the period between the second meal and going to
sleep.

## Nine days later (2024-07-27)

I followed the identified best practices and was feeling generally
good through the day, though my total accounted-for hours were a bit
low.

## Ten days later (2024-07-28)

Despite trying to follow best practices, I didn't feel as good as the
previous day, though still better than two days and four days
ago. There were a few specific things that happened today:

* Maybe slight rushing of morning bowel movement due to a timer going
  off that I needed to turn off (though I did feel like I finished up).

* Potatoes/peas prep and more consumption of that (my mixed veggies
  were over).

* A decent amount of cleaning activity after meal, and in general a
  lot of physical moving around activity; ironically I felt fine
  during the activity but settling down right after it I experienced
  more discomfort.

* The fragmented nature of the day meant I did not get deep
  intellectual engagement which tends to drive out thoughts of the
  discomfort.

I did notice that my discomfort would peak right before urination and
I'd feel pretty normal after urination. This has been an observation
in the past as well, but was particularly pronounced today.

## Eleven days later (2024-07-29)

I felt mostly good through the day, with occasional abdominal
discomfort right at the peak of urine buildups.

## Twelve days later (2024-07-30)

I continued to feel good through most of the day; in fact, this was
probably my best day in a while. However, I did continue to experience
similar symptoms as before. Late in the day, I experienced more pain
than usual, but urination helped reduce the pain.

## Thirteen days later (2024-07-31)

Factor X applied.

I was feeling more pain than usual this morning. Considering that this
was also the case the last time factor X had applied (2024-07-24) I
now suspect factor X to be an aggravator.

I did two unusual things later in the day:

* I started a break from sauerkraut. I'm planning to sustain this
  break for a week and then reassess.

* I decided to try a bowel movement in the afternoon at around 3
  PM. Surprisingly, a bowel movement happened without effort on my
  part (even though I didn't feel a strong urge for one). This
  suggests to me that perhaps the issue is incomplete bowel movements
  in the morning, despite feeling satisfied shortly after the bowel
  movement. But it's unclear if today was unusual. I'm planning to try
  a bowel movement a few more times in the future.

  I did notice a little bleeding when wiping after the bowel movement,
  but it didn't seem too concerning. I didn't experience any
  pain. I'll keep an eye out for bleeding in the future, and make sure
  that for any low-pressure bowel movements I don't try to push stuff
  out forcefully which might make bleeding worse.

I felt relieved after the bowel movement though not "perfectly fine"
so I don't think this alone did the trick. I continued to be
approximately in this good state till my next meal and then for a
couple of hours afterward; however, I had more pronounced sensations
of discomfort around 9 PM as I settled into sedentary work. The
sensations continued till before I went to sleep, though there were
times in between where it didn't feel unpleasant at all.

## Fourteen days later (2024-08-01)

As for the last few days, I felt a little reflux in my throat when I
woke up though it wasn't enough to make my voice hoarse.

I generally felt reasonably good in the morning, though the discomfort was still present.

These are my notes from the morning, taken shortly before I went jogging:

* Burping: yes (started early on)
* Rumble: yes and audible (growing to a rumble over time)
* Flatulence: no
* Tenesmus: no
* Pain level: 0, occasionally a 1 (i.e., I noticed it (0) and it was occasionally unpleasant (1) but it didn’t disturb or distract me physically)

Notes taken a little over an hour after my meal:

* Burping: yes (off and on)
* Rumble: nothing audible
* Flatulence: occasional, slight
* Tenesmus: no
* Pain level: 0 (i.e., I noticed it (0) but didn't rise to the level 1 where it was unpleasant)

Overall notes: I consider this my best day among recent days. The
afternoon/evening were particularly great. The pain level was almost
always around a 0 and in most cases I wasn't even thinking about
it. It did spike to a 1 occasionally.

However, even though I think I could "live" with this, I still want to
try the potatoes/peas/broccoli/kale elimination and will then
reintroduce potatoes/broccoli/kale after 3 days of abstinence and wait
about a week before introducing peas or lentils. I'll continue
consuming the yogurt at an elevated rate for the time being. I do want
to get to the state of actual good health versus just a zero-pain
functioning state. My hope is that once I get to the state of actual
good health I can taper off the yogurt, resume some peas/lentils
consumption, resume sauerkraut consumption, return to sleeping less,
and then see if I continue to maintain the good health. With that
said, I'm still happy to at least have a working level of good health
that I can sustain / fall back to.

## Fifteen days later (2024-08-02)

This was an unusual day. I went to San Francisco to meet a couple of
people in the afternoon. As a result, I skipped exercise in the
morning.

My pain level was at a 0 through the day. I had minor amounts of
burping and flatulence -- still more than my healthy state but less
than the last few days. I was able to suppress these even more while
hanging out with others, so that I could function well in the
interaction.

## Sixteen days later (2024-08-03)

Going into the day, there are two factors working against me:

* Less sleep than usual: I got 7 hours of sleep; I went to sleep at
  12:55 AM and got up around 7:50 AM. This is fine for normal times
  but less than the extended sleep I've been trying to get these days.

* Factor X applied, though it was different than usual and hopefully
  less bad than the other occurrences.

Despite these headwinds, this was my best day in a while. For large
parts of the day, I had no issues. The occasional pain was mostly at
level ero where I was aware of it but it didn't distract me.

## Seventeen days later (2024-08-04)

Going into the day, the main factor working against me was that I only
got 7 hours 40 minutes of sleep, which isn't too little on its own,
but low considering that the previous day I had only 7 hours of sleep.

I had much less bowel pressure than usual, so I went for bowel
movement a little later in the day, and it didn't come out that
quickly, though the overall volume was only slightly less than usual.

Things were great in the morning and until my meal prep and
eating. However, after eating, I noticed slight abdominal heaviness --
a 0 rating of pain. I also felt a bit of generalized fatigue and
tingling. However, for the most part I continued with my work as usual.

Around 6:30 PM I decided to see if I have buildup for a bowel
movement, so I tried to pass stool, but nothing came out. I gave up
after a few minutes, as was my plan. However, in hindsight maybe I
should have tried to strain even less (I tried keeping straining to a
minimum, but should have aimed for even less).

## Eighteen days later (2024-08-05)

Having gone to sleep around 11:15 PM last night, I woke up initially at
6:47 AM to urinate, then went back to bed and properly got up around
7:30 AM. I had stronger bowel pressure than usual, so I had to go for
bowel movement with less buildup time than usual. Retrospectively, I
feel like some of the ingredients in the Kitava meal (including the
onions) may have had some unexpected destabilizing effects on my bowel
movement cycle, though the lesser sleep on Friday and Saturday were
also likely contributing factors (but I do think the extra work I was
able to do and the flow I was able to get into due to that made it
worthwhile).

I had off-and-on zero rating pain in the morning; it was off my mind
for most of my Amazon package pickup trip but it was there.

I had a more on-my-mind zero rating pain after eating, and the pain
very occasionally crossed to a 1.

Roughly speaking, I think this was comparable to last Tuesday and not
as good as last Thursday, but it's difficult to compare very precisely
(and maybe I psychologically felt better Thursday due to the upward
trajectory, even though I wasn't materially better on
Thursday). Definitely, there seems to have been a regression since
last Saturday. I'm wondering if my stoppage of potatoes prep is
leading to a protein shortage that is causing other issues,
considering that I felt pretty much recovered on Saturday. Or if there
is just some residual effect of the Kitava meal that will die out in a
day or two so I just need to brave through it. I'll continue observing
until tomorrow afternoon/evening to figure out if things are getting
better or worse.

I think one way the current symptoms feel a little different than last
week is that there is a more pronounced sense of fatigue/lethargy,
though the fatigue/lethargy is not huge in absolute terms, and I'm
still continuing to do stuff at close to my usual speed and intensity.

After dinner, I got engrossed in the stuff I was doing and overall the
abdominal discomfort was less salient. It's not clear to me if it
actually receded or I was just more engrossed in my work and therefore
thought about it less.

## Nineteen days later (2024-08-06)

While mostly feeling better in the morning, I had a couple of concerning things:

* More pain than usual, though less stomach rumble and less burping
  and flatulence most of the time. But the pain was mild.

* My second breath hold could last only 32 seconds, due to
  chest/abdominal pain.

I decided to skip strength exercises today due to a mix of time
constraints and wanting to avoid exacerbating the pain. Also, since I
did heavy lifting yesterday for my Amazon package pickup, I think it's
fine to skip strength exercises.

Through the day, I'd say that it was a mix of feeling at my worst of
the past week, while also feeling like the pain has peaked and things
are gonna get better now. I'm not sure how much my psychology was
influencing my read of the pain. But I feel intuitively that the
onions played some role, even though it's now four days since I had
them.

## Twenty days later (2024-08-07)

This day seemed to be great, so I think my intuition of the previous
day being the beginning of a turnaround was correct.

* My breath hold numbers were back to normal. Exercise-wise the only
  unusual thing is that I couldn't fully close the 150 lb with my left
  hand (the right hand was fine). I tried a few times later in the day
  and was only able to close it once. Occasional inability to close
  the 150 lb with one hand is not unusual, and it may be unrelated to
  the topic of this document.

* I noticed abdominal issues for a smaller fraction of the day, and
  most of the time I did, the pain level was a 0 (i.e., not getting in
  my way).

* I also had way less of burping, flatulence, and stomach rumble
  through the day (though I had more flatulence in the morning prior
  to bowel movement).

* I was high on energy and in my general spirits.

I'm currently inclining to the hypothesis that this is a FODMAP issue,
with the initial trigger being peas and sauerkraut after overexertion
(these foods are tolerated by me under normal circumstances, but not
under the overexertion circumstances), and the reason for the recent
brief regression being the Kitava meal that included onions.

My plan is to gently resume lentils, peas, and sauerkraut at low doses
while closely monitoring symptoms.

## Twenty-one days later (2024-08-08)

This day was worse than the previous day, but still overall pretty good.

I had gone to sleep a little later the previous day, due to an evening
grocery store trip and in general feeling higher-energy. Still, not
too much later than usual -- I did get into bed around 11:18 PM and go
to sleep around 11:40 PM.

However, the result of this was that I did not get my target 8.5 hours
of sleep. I first got out of bed to urinate at around 7 AM, but then
went back to bed and eventually got out of bed at around 7:25 AM. So
it was a total of about 7 hours 45 minutes of sleep, which is not too
bad, but not ideal.

This was also my first time having lentils since the beginning of this
round of abdominal pain, though I had had peas and onions previously,
and I think lentils would be lower-FODMAP given my preparation. I
didn't have a lot.

It was after my first meal that I started feeling clear-cut pain and a
general dampening of spirits. But I astutely identified the
possibility of incomplete bowel evacuation in the morning as a
contributing factor, so about two hours after my meal I went for a
bowel movement and had a successful one (even though I was not feeling
a lot of bowel pressure per se). After the bowel movement I was back
to feeling upbeat, though it still wasn't as good as yesterday.

I had a little bit (equivalent of about 1/3 of my cup) of lentils with
my dinner meal. I felt some discomfort for about 1-2 hours after the
meal, which reduced as time passed by. Based on the characteristics of
the discomfort, I suspect that the lentils consumption (combined over
my two meals) was one of the factors, so my current plan is to stay
off for at least two days of feeling good (at a level comparable to
Wednesday). This means that the earliest I would resume is Sunday,
assuming that Friday and Saturday go well. Moreover, when resuming, I
should limit to one meal and to 1/4 cup in that one meal, and then
only on the day after that should I ramp up to levels comparable to
today.

## Current learnings

I've been updating [best practices around abdominal
discomfort](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-abdominal-discomfort.md);
this reflects my most up-to-date learnings.
