# 2024-09-25: decision to increase omega-3 supplement daily dose

On 2024-09-25, after getting the results of the omega-3 levels in my
blood, that showed not-great results that were a little worse than
2021, I decided that it made sense to try increasing the daily dose
from 1 to 2 softgels.

## Reasoning

I use the [Freshfield vegan
omega-3](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07H9GL3Y8) that has 450 mg of DHA
and 70 mg of DPA per softgel (NOTE 2024-09-28: actually this is per 2
gels, see next para). The guidance on the bottle says 1-2 softgels per
day. Given that 1 softgel seems to not be cutting it, I've decided to
up the dosage to 2 softgels. I also confirmed that the recommended
omega-3 supplement dosage in general is 250-500 mg at the low end and
1000-1500 mg at the high end.

NOTE ADDED 2024-09-28: I noticed that actually the 450 mg DHA and 70
mg DPA measure is for a "serving size" of 2 softgels (one of the
comments in an Amazon review tipped me off). Seems like other omega-3
supplement companies also do this; not sure of the reasons. In any
case, what that means is that I've been taking 260 mg (low end of
recommended dosage) so going up to 520 mg (high end of recommended
dosage) should be very safe. It may still not be enough, but I can at
least get directional information on the extent to which it's moving
the measured omega-3 after which I can decide whether to adjust dosage
further or try another supplement.

The alternative would be dietary omega-3, but dietary omega-3 has
challenges in the vegan context:

* The only direct dietary source of long-chain omega-3 for me is
  seaweed (something I started after the blood test, but before
  getting my omega-3 result). I don't expect my consumption of seaweed
  to be enough to significantly move the needle.

* While I have a decent amount of dietary ALA (the short-chain omega-3
  that served as the building block for long-chain omega-3), there are
  concerns about the body's efficiency converting ALA to the
  longer-chain omega-3. In theory, reducing omega-6 should help
  improve the body's ability to convert ALA to long-chain fatty acids,
  so dietary adjustments to reduce olive oil (that has a high
  omega-6:omega-3 ratio) should help, and I'm already doing this. But,
  there may be a natural ceiling here, and popping an extra supplement
  dose seems like a more surefre way of achieving the higher
  long-chain omega-3 concentrations without my body needing to engage
  in synthesis.

## Cost note

Going from 1 to 2 softgels a day for omega-3 would cost me roughly an
extra $10/month, which roughly cancels the saving I get from reducing
my olive oil consumption. Overall, if this works, the cost seems small
and not worth worrying about.

## Implementation details

The current plan is to take both of them in the morning, so that I
finish my supplement consumption in the morning.

In the future, I might consider:

* Switching to a different supplement for 1 of the 2 doses
* Switching to a different supplement entirely

## Evaluation strategy

For now, my plan is to continue at this increased dosage level for a
little while and then do a further blood test to assess the effect. I
think it makes sense to wait at least 6 months before the next blood
test, so that the effect of the supplement increase can be clearly
seen.
