# 2024-10-08 onward: abdominal discomfort and other symptoms

In all cases, the pain was below the belly button in the center and a
little bit on the sides. It had a bit of "somebody socked me" and a
bit of "I ate something bad" feels, without being either. It was
qualitatively close to what I experienced toward the end of the
previous round (starting with the [2024-07-18
incident](2024-07-18-excessive-morning-activity-and-abdominal-pain-in-the-afternoon.md)).

As of 2024-10-29, I am considering this incident closed, although I
think there are still things I need to figure out in the space of
abdominal discomfort and my GI system.

## Potential triggers leading up to this

### General triggers

* High heat: Bay Area heat wave for over a week as of 2024-10-08, with
  temperatures finally starting to drop on 2024-10-08 and getting to
  Bay Area normal levels on 2024-10-09.

* Rapid temperature drop after high heat: It could be that the issue
  wasn't just high heat but the big temperature drop from the high
  heat, which left my body reeling to adjust.

* Slightly reduced sleep quality and quantity (this is mostly driven
  by the heat meaning that I have fewer hours that I can get quality
  sleep).

* Physical exertion: I've made a point of trying to avoid the sort of
  extreme exertion that preceded my [2024-07-18
  incident](2024-07-18-excessive-morning-activity-and-abdominal-pain-in-the-afternoon.md). But,
  I have been ramping up my level of physical exercise.

* Cognitive exertion: By switching to watching/listening to
  educational and cognitively at least somewhat demanding videos
  during meal prep, post-meal cleanup, and meal consumption, I've
  added a new category to cognitive exertion without taking anything
  out to compensate. Previously, while I did watch videos during meals
  and meal prep, only part of the time was on cognitively intense
  stuff and the rest was on relaxing entertainment. And, I didn't
  watch/listen to videos during post-meal cleanup, so there was less
  forced auditory and cognitive stimulation.

### Immediate triggers

2024-10-06 and 2024-10-07 were both "long days" with the former being
cognitively intense, and the latter being a mix of cognitively and
physically intense. I also didn't get as much sleep as I would in
better weather.

## 2024-10-08: abdominal discomfort symptoms resume

In the last few weeks, I've had residual symptoms from my [2024-07-18
  incident](2024-07-18-excessive-morning-activity-and-abdominal-pain-in-the-afternoon.md), but these have generally been brief, mild, and intermittent.

In contrast, the abdominal discomfort I experienced on 2024-10-08 had
two bouts that both lasted long enough and were distressing enough to
make me think about them, rather than being able to ignore them.

The two times in question were late morning / early afternoon and late
evening / early night. They coincided with the period around the
consumption of the first and second meal respectively. In both cases,
things subsided in a few hours and I was back to normal.

Separate from the discomfort, I didn't have any other GI symptoms such
as a clear increase in flatlence. My fermentation reading from
FoodMarble (taken around the time the discomfort was starting to
subside) came pretty low for hydrogen and zero for methane, so it
doesn't look like (as of yet) fermentation of these two gases is
driving things.

Other symptoms I experienced were right neck and shoulder fatigue and
general fatigue; I also observed increased urination, which is partly
due to temperature returning to normal but may also be indicative of
general pain in the area driving the need.

## 2024-10-09: abdominal discomfort recurs and I try Atrantil

On 2024-10-09, I noticed abdominal discomfort symptoms around 12:50 PM
when waiting for my dental cleaning. I had take care not to eat
fermentable foods recently, so that I wouldn't have to worry about
flatulence while being treated. However, even prior to this, in the
morning, I did notice the need for increased urination after my first
meal.

The discomfort lasted briefly but I was able to suppress it and got
through the dental cleaning without thinking about it.

The second noticeable round of symptoms started around 5 PM in the
evening, as I was getting ready to go to Trader Joe's. It continued in
the journey to Trader Joe's, and some of the journey back, but was
largely gone when I started potatoes prep. I didn't have flatulence
until around 6:30 PM or so when I had a brief bout of it.

With my second meal, I took one capsule of atrantil to see if it was
safe; after verifying that 'll up to 2 doses per day. The presence of
abdominal discomfort these days gives me a clear target of treatment
for Atrantil.

Other symptoms I experienced (for a subset of the time I experienced
abdominal discomfort) include head, neck, and shoulder fatigue and
general fatigue/lethargy. Some of these might have been exacerbated by
the unnatural position and mouth opening that were part of the dental
cleaning process.

## 2024-10-10: Atrantil two doses and reduced symptoms

On 2024-10-10, with my first meal, I took two doses of Atrantil. My
abdominal symptoms in the late morning / early afternoon were much
more subdued than the past two days. However, I did have brief
head/neck/shoulder stiffness as usual, and this was not significantly
less than the last two day

In the evening, I again had a bit of abdominal discomfort, and the
magnitude was less than the past two days, but still more than in the
late morning / early afternoon.

Overall, the data is consistent with Atrantil helping improve things,
but not clearly so.

## 2024-10-11: Atrantil two doses and continued low symptoms

On 2024-10-11, with my first meal, I took two doses of Atrantil. I
also resumed consumption of walnuts, that I had stopped for my [dental
cleaning](2024-10-09-dental-cleaning.md). Another improvement compared
to the previous day was somewhat reduced fatigue as a result of
catching up with some of the sleep backlog.

Overall, I continued experiencing a similar or slightly lower level of
GI symptoms compared to the previous day, and milder than 2024-10-08
and 2024-10-09. I also did not experience the head/neck/shoulder pain
that I had experienced until the previous day, so that was an
improvement.

My FoodMarble Aire 2 hydrogen fermentation score reading taken about
90 minutes after my second meal was a little higher than usual, but
still in the low range. My methane fermentation score continued to be
zero.

## 2024-10-12: Atrantil two doses and continued low symptoms

On 2024-10-12, I continued the two doses of Atrantil. I continued to
have mild abdominal discomfort symptoms, but the intermittent
head/neck/shoulder tension was definitely relatively more
concerning. Also, I had a lethargy/fatigue episode after my first meal
around 5-6 PM, and then continued to feel a little low in energy after
post-meal cleanup (around 8 PM).

My current thinking is that the cognitive and auditory overload of
listening to educational content during meals, meal prep, and
post-meal cleanup might be adding up to too much. I've formulated some
best practices to keep these under control. See [best pratices around
exertion and
stimulation](../../best-practices/best-practies-around-exertion-and-stimulation.md)
for more information.

## 2024-10-13: Atrantil two doses and continued low symptoms + low fermentation scores

On 2024-10-13, I experienced an increase in discomfort in the late
morning, a little before exercise, but it mostly subsided on its own,
leaving only a little bit of unease in its wake. I continued taking
two doses of Atrantil. My FoodMarble Aire 2 breath test score taken in
the early afternoon showed low fermentation score values.

## 2024-10-14

I experienced the abdominal discomfort earlier in the morning (shortly
after bowel movement) rather than toward the mid-to-late morning. In
general it looks like there has been a shift in when the abdominal
discomfort kicks in in the morning, toward earlier. The duration
hasn't increased much, and it continues to be intermittent for a few
hours before taking a rest.

## 2024-10-15

I did experience some intermittent abdominal discomfort but I think it
was less than before, and not much by way of flatulence.

Exertion and impact: I did sequence mmemory test, hitting new highs
(which also meant I ended up spending a lot of time because the higher
the level the more the time spent, quadratically so). I engaged in
more auditory stimulation (listening to music, having stuff on speaker
while washing dishes). And I also made another quickly-aborted attempt
with the 200 lb hand gripper. The level of exertion fell within the
limits I've set at [best practices around exertion and
stimulation](../best-practices/best-practices-around-exertion-and-stimulation.md)
but in some respects it was quite daring despite staying within the
limits.

I did experience slightly more head/neck/shoulder pain a few hours
*after* engaging in some of these actions. I tried a few neck
exercises and massages which may have helped but not very clearly
so. It's not clear how much the exertion versus the lack of recovery
from the underlying issue were contributing.

## 2024-10-16

I had a 4.5-hour-long conversation with work colleagues about non-work
topics. See
[here](2024-10-16-extended-conversation-and-delay-in-meal.md) for more
details. I was able to get a degree of sympathetic activation for the
conversation and had no abdominal discomfort during it, though I did
have intermittent abdominal discomfort later in the day.

## 2024-10-17

The day was fairly normal. I had brief intermittent discomfort around noon,
shortly before eating. I also had a bit more flatulence than usual,
but it was not unpleasant.

Apart from the intermittent discomfort, the main thing I find unusual
nowadays is the greater feeling of fullness/heaviness after meals
(generally lasting about 30-60 minutes). Prior to the [first iteration
of problems on 2024-04-25](2024-04-25-abdominal-pain.md), this kind of
feeling was very unusual, happening only occasionally. I don't know
the extent to which this is explained by general dietary changes over
time, and how much it's related to the abdominal discomfort.

Something new developed here that may be related: [2024-10-17 anal
swelling](2024-10-17-anal-swelling.md).

## 2024-10-21

I have not been taking regular notes on the abdominal discomfort. It
has become more and more intermittent over time, and what is left can
be a little difficult to separate from the anal swelling. I'll take
stock of it again once the anal swelling is more substantially healed.

## 2024-10-24

There was a recurence of a larger level of abdominal discomfort after
my evening meal, where I had a freshly made
potatoes/tomatoes/peas/kale prep. I feel like the tomatoes and
potatoes were responsible for the acid feel and resistant starch feel
respectively. Interestingly, peas, that I would previously implicate
as FODMAPs, didn't feel like a contributor.

I also had stronger bowel pressure than usual the next
morning. However, after bowel movement, things seemed fine.

It could be that one of the potatoes or tomatoes had a bit of spoilage
and my body was just complaining about it.

## 2024-10-26

While things were pretty good after my morning meal, there was a
recurrence of a larger level of abdominal discomfort (as well as
flatulence) after my evening meal, comparable to though slightly less
than 2024-10-24 (the reduction in anal swelling itching helped keep
the overall level more pleasant). I'm now suspecting something in the
potatoes and kale, as I had no "acid-like" feel (that would implicate
tomatoes) but it does feel like something that is common between
potatoes and kale. Overall, whatever it is, it doesn't seem to be the
sort of thing that has negative functional impacts other than the
abdominal discomfort and flatulence; it doesn't affect small intestine
digestion and it doesn't get in the way of bowel movement cycle. So,
while it would be good to get a better handle on what it is and what
triggers it to be higher uder some conditions (so as to reduce my
discomfort), I am not currently worried about its broader effects.

This elevation in discomfort seems to have subsided in about 48 hours,
by the evening of 2024-10-28.
