# 2024-10-16: extended conversation and delay in meal

Due to an extended conversation with work colleagues from 9 AM to 1:30
PM, I ended up delaying the start of my first meal to 2:39 PM, which
was almost 21 hours before I had finished my previous meal. I followed
the [best practices around
fasting](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-fasting.md) and
also attempted to adhere as much as possible to the [best practices
around exertion and
stimulation](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-exertion-and-stimulation.md).

## Background and prior preparation

On the evening of 2024-10-15, the previous day, I finished my second
meal at around 5:50 PM and went to sleep at 10:40 PM. I woke up around
7:11 AM on the morning of 2024-10-16.

The meal end time, sleep time, and waking up time were all a little
earlier than usual, primarily so that I could be alert and fully
caught up with morning tasks prior to the start of the meeting (9 AM).

Preparatorily, I got my lentils (that I planned to consume in the meal
after the conversation) ready to be cooked, but did not put the heat
on until the end of the conversation.

I also did a MEW calculation (per the best practices around exertion
and stimulation) and concluded that it was safer to skip exercise in
the morning -- before or after talking -- and conserve MEWs for the
conversation.

## The conversation

The conversation was expected to last a minimum of 2 hours, with
potential to go longer. It ended up going for 4.5 hours (9 AM to 1:30
PM) with me talking for something like 80-90% of the duration. I did
drink water a couple of times in between but for the most part I
talked.

## Aftermath

After the end of the conversation, I followed the best practices
around fasting as much as possible.

* I sipped water multiple times over the next hour or so, before
  eating, to make sure my throat was not too dry before I started
  eating. I started that first meal at 2:39 PM.

* I skipped sauerkraut and walnuts -- the more intense and hard foods
  for the mouth and throat -- in the first meal I had after the
  conversation.

* I added more liberal quantities of yogurt to provide a more soft,
  smooth, and cold touch to the food.
