# 2024-10-25 flu shot

Sections of this document:

* [Appointment booking](#appointment-booking)
* [Prior preparation](#prior-preparation)
* [Appointment](#appointment)

## Appointment booking

I booked my appointment for the flu shot on Saturday October 12. The
appointment is for Friday October 25 at 3 PM at the 2801 Adeline
Street location.

I followed the [best practices around vaccine
appointments](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-vaccine-appointments.md)
for the process. I also set up all the calendar reminders and executed
on the other preparatory steps as recommended in that document. In
particular, the time of Friday 3 PM was lifted straight from the best
practice (and is also consistent with my choice for the past few
vaccine appointments).

One special consideration I'll call out here is that I did the booking
3 days after my [dental cleaning](2024-10-09-dental-cleaning.md),
which was enough time for me to be confident that aftereffects of the
dental cleaning (such as excess salivation or increased sensitivity)
had not materialized. Nonetheless, I maintained the gap of over two
weeks between the dental cleaning and the vaccine appointment, per the
best practice.

## Prior preparation

### Pausing of all strength exercises, hand gripper exercises, and dead hang exercises starting 2024-10-23

Starting 2024-10-23, two days prior to the appointment, I stopped all
strength exercises, hand gripper exercises, and dead hang
exercises. The goal was to reduce tension in the neck, shoulder, and
arm muscles. This pause was based on the [best practices around
vaccine
appointments](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-vaccine-appointments.md).

### Skipping all exercises the day of (2024-10-25)

On 2024-10-25, I skipped all exercises in the morning. However, I did
end up having to go to Trader Joe's for some shopping, so that I
wouldn't have to do it after getting the flu shot. This was because
the trip I made on Wednesday 2024-10-23 I was not able to buy enough
stuff to sustain me through the next few days, and due to time
constraints I had not been able to make a trip on Thursday 2024-10-24.

## Appointment

I arrived at the Walgreens pharmacy line at 2:37 PM, for an
appointment time of 3 PM and a reporting time of 2:45 PM. However, the
line moved slowly and by the time I got to the counter it was 2:58
PM. The good news for the future is that I learned that instead of
waiting in line, I should scan the QR code displayed near the counter
and do an online check-in, then talk to the people at the counter to
do the check-out.

Unlike the last few times I did not have to fill in anything on a
paper form -- the digital check-in process included the incremental
questions over and above the consent form that I had already filled in
(questions about currently being sick or recently being exposed to
COVID-19).

It took a few minutes for the electronic submission to go through. At
around 3:09 PM, I finishd the check-out and was given the flu shot
sheet with a time of 3:15 PM and told to wait for the shot. The flu
shot sheet specified the vaccine as Flucelvax 0.5ml IM PFS (IM =
intramuscular, PFS = pre-filled syringe).

I was called in at around 3:15 PM. After confirming my details, the
pharmacist gave me the shot and bandaged me. I got the shot in my
right arm. She asked me to stay in the store for 15 minutes.

I checked all my belongings and exited the room at 3:16 PM.

Rather than just stand around, I started collecting items to shop. The
shopping checkout process ended at 3:28 PM; I then collected my
belongings and left the store.

Since I had ended up using up a decent number of MEWs with the Trader
Joe's trip earlier in the day plus standing around at Walgreens, I
decided to skip additional outside chores for the day. Instead, I
headed back home.
