# 2024-11-25: anal swelling

## Initial symptoms and development

### 2024-11-21: sleeping late

As explained in my [sleep tracker](2024-sleep-tracker.md), I stayed up
late on Thursday 2024-11-21 to get stuff done while the rain had
stopped,

### 2024-11-22 and 2024-11-23: abdominal discomfort

I experienced mild abdominal discomfort on 2024-11-22 in the morning
and early afternoon, that I attributed to sleeping late on
2024-11-21. This was after several days without abdominal discomfort,
a welcome relief from the period of July to September where abdominal
discomfort was the norm.

I experienced similar abdominal discomfort briefly in the evening on
2024-11-23.

### 2024-11-25 (prelude)

As a result of my sleeping late on 2024-11-21 (as mentioned above)q,
my sleep cycle got shifted to later. I tried to fix things in the next
few days, but not enough. On Sunday 2024-11-24, due to scheduling
constraints, I again delayed my sleep quite a bit. Then, on the
morning of Monday 2024-11-25, I was woken up by n alert at 8:18 AM. I
ended up having a bowel movement but had a strong wave of sleepiness
and abdominal discomfort in the late afternoon.

Something that semed to work but may have been a mistake in hindsight:
around 5 PM, I attempted a second bowel movement, due to the suspicion
that my first bowel movement had not been a full one. The attempt was
unsuccessful though I did feel relief after doing it. While I tried
not to strain, and kept the duration of the attempt short, I likely
still strained more than ideal. This may be one one of the
contributing factors to the anal swelling.

### 2024-11-25 from around midnight till going to sleep

Around midnight going from 2024-11-25 to 2024-11-26, while having a
bath, I noticed some swelling in my mid-to-upper anus region. At this
point, there was no pain or itching; I only noticed as part of the
washing process.

Later, when going to sleep, I noticed that I could notice the swelling
and some itching if I did an anal sphincter contraction, but it was
not bringing itself to my attention. I formally went to sleep around
1:20 AM.

### 2024-11-26 during the day

On the morning of 2024-11-26, it was perhaps a bit more noticeable but
also hard to separate out from the general pressure of a bowel
movement. I did a wet wipe after the bowel movement. My general sense
was that I was not having any spontaneous smarting any more, but if I
did a voluntary anal sphincter contraction then I did feel the
pain. There was still swelling in the middle area of the anus that I
could feel on the touch.

However, after I got back from jogging, the overall sensation of
discomfort in the area was more constant, even when I did not do an
anal sphincter contraction. This continued to be the case through the
afternoon and evening.

I did a few additional rounds of wet wipes through the day.

I did not stop walnuts and sauerkraut in my first meal of 2024-11-26,
though I did have only about 50% of my usual sauerkraut quantity and
about 60-80% of my usual walnuts quantity.

### 2024-11-26 to 2024-11-27 at night

Although I was reasonably relaxed when going to sleep, I had a lot of
noticeable pain at night, compounded by other sources of discomfort
including the cold and the need to urinate. I often felt like touching
or rubbing the swelling, though I only gently touched it and did not
scratch or rub. I got up twice at night to urinate, compared to my
norm of once per night.

### 2024-11-27 in the morning

When I woke up in the morning, my sense of bowel pressure was stronger
than usual, which may be due to an interaction with the swelling.

The pain subsided quite a bit after bowel movement.

### 2024-11-27 first meal

This time, I completely skipped sauerkraut and had only 30% or so of
my usual walnut intake.

### 2024-11-27 after my meal: acetaminophen consumption

At around 3:20 PM, 20 minutes after finishing my meal, in light of
pesistent nagging pain, even though it wasn't too severe, I decided to
take one capsule of acetaminophen (500 mg). To reduce the risk of
acetaminophen toxicity, I took one capsule of n-acetylcysteine (600
mg) along with it. I had already taken a capsule of n-acetylcysteine
earlier, with my meal, but this one was specifically tied to the
acetaminophen consumption to maximize the chances that it would help
counteract acetaminophen toxicity.

The motivation for taking acetaminophen was not that I absolutely
could not tolerate the pain, but rather to see if acetaminophen is
effective with this kind of pain. Also, given that I was planning to
make an outside trip in the near future, I was particularly keen to
reduce my pain for the duration of the trip.

And it's plausible that the acetaminophen worked! Starting about 30-45
minutes later, I felt my brain much less drawn to the pain even though
I could still feel the pain if I concentrated my thoughts on it. But
the effect size was not super-dramatic, and I can't rule out placebo
effects and other confounders.

### 2024-11-27 second meal

For my second meal of 2024-11-27, I continued to have walnuts at a
reduced rate (about 30% of usual intake).

### 2024-11-27 after second meal: unexpected bowel movement

I finished my second meal at 8:04 PM. I then did post-meal
cleanup. Around 9:15 PM, I got back to my computer for desk
work. Unexpectedly, about 5 minutes later, I had a strong urge for
bowel movement.

Given my suspicion that past straining is what might have created the
swelling in the first place, I decided to limit myself to one minute
of trying, and also to not linger for more than a minute after
stopping. The bowel movement started out within a few seconds, and was
quick and stopped quickly. The bowel movement was somewhere around
70-80% of a full morning bowel movement, which suggests that I did
indeed have some buildup arising from the Monday early wake-up, that I
had not been able to fully clear.

More relevantly to my anal swelling, there was a bit of blood in the
stool and some blood on wiping around the area of the
swelling. Moreover, the extent of the swelling seems to have
reduced. It seems like the passing of stool helped break up some of
the swelling, which resulted in some bleeding, but the hope is that
this is a one-time thing and the residual swelling (which seems to be
less) will fix itself over time.

I also suspect that the pain I was previously feeling was some mix of
direct pain from the swelling and the interaction of buildup pressure
and the swelling. With the bowel movement done, the pain I now feel is
more directly just the irritation from the swelling.

### 2024-11-27 to 2024-11-28 at night

I went to sleep around 12:10 AM. Overall, my sleep was better than the
previous night, which is likely because of the bowel movement earlier
in the evening that reduced the pressure. I also made sure to urinate
right before going to sleep, to reduce the pressure.

I got up twice to urinate: once around 2:30 AM and once around 5:30
AM. I was then woken up at 9:15 AM by the alarm, at which point I was
already semi-awake. I urinated and got back in bed for a few minutes
before formally waking up at around 9:28 AM.

### 2024-11-28 morning

On most days, I catch up with email and other minor morning checklist
items prior to my bowel movement, but the bowel pressure in the
morning was so strong that I went for bowel movement as soon as I woke
up.

The bowel movement size was about 70-80% of a full bowel movement, and
there was once again a bit of blood in the stool and on the toilet
paper when I wiped, similar to last evening. Overall, I felt very
relieved after the bowel movement.

## Other notes

### Cold, muscle tensing, and wet wipes

This anal swelling is happening under colder conditions than
usual. There are two effects that I can identify:

* Tensed muscles: My muscles are more tensed due to the cold, which
  may increase the quantity and affect the qualia of discomfort, even
  if the anal sphincter itself is not tensed.

* Wet wipes: Unlike in warmer weather, where room temperature (cold
  tapwater) wet wipes were fine, in this cold weather the cold
  tapwater wet wipe may be too cold and therefore may not be having
  the intended effect.
