# 2024-06-24-25: late sleep, inner stress, and incomplete digestion

After sleeping moderately though not very late for the past few days,
on 2024-06-23 and 2024-06-24 I slept a little more late than usual. On
2024-06-23 it was around 12:30 AM due to chatting with parents going
on longer; on 2024-06-24 it was at around 12:45 AM and the delay was
because I really wanted to get a few things done that I hadn't been
able to do during the day due to cooking and personal chores.

On 2024-06-24 night, I was feeling inner stress -- no particular
immediate external trigger -- around not living a life consistent with
my values -- particularly when it comes to time spent on personal
projects being so low relative to what I had set out for it to be.

I was also woken up around 3 AM by a false alarm (of a kind that was
new over the past few days -- I would address it around 8 AM that day
so it won't happen in the near future). I went back to sleep but this
probably caused more disruption.

I first started waking up around 6:40 AM but stayed in bed and
ultimately got out of bed around 7:45 AM.

I did not have strong bowel pressure. I went for bowel movement around
9 AM and had a smaller bowel movement than usual.

## Overnight and next day update

I made a point of not going to sleep too late -- I got into bed by
around 11:10 PM and closed my eyes around 11:20 PM. The next day
(2024-06-26) I woke up around 7:25 AM organically feeling well-rested,
though I didn't end up getting as much extra sleep as I was
anticipating.

I didn't get bowel pressure immediately after waking up, but it built
up over time. I went for bowel movement around 8:40 AM, once the bowel
pressure was strong, and I had a complete bowel movement. I think
things are back to normal now.
