# 2024-09-17: mouth bite

## 2024-09-17: initial "bite"

This isn't quite a bite, but there was a slight impact on my right
lower lip area that made the area a bit more nervously sensitive,
though there wasn't any clear pain on eating, flossing, or rinsing. At
the time, I thought that the enhanced sensation is likely to be more
of a nervous response than a "real" issue.

I didn't think too much about it and the initial sensation subsided .

## 2024-09-18 and 2024-09-19: consumption of outside food from Udupi Palace after a long time, continued consumption of walnuts, sauerkraut, and kimchi

As there were no clear sensations for the days of 2024-09-18 and
2024-09-19, I continued food consumption as usual, including walnuts,
sauerkraut, and kimchi. Also, in an unusual move, I got spinach masala
dosa takeout from Udupi Palace. This was my first time getting it in
about five months.

## 2024-09-20: return of sensations

On 2024-09-20, around dinner, my attention was drawn to this again,
and I noticed the bulge with my tongue. While it did not pain or
actively smart when eating or flossing, I did feel my attention drawn
to it a few times over the course of the evening.

Perhaps related or unrelated, I [also noticed anal swelling on
2024-09-20](2024-09-20-anal-swelling.md).

## 2024-09-21: continuation of sensations

The leve of 2024-09-20 continued on 2024-09-21, probably with some
improvement. I paused consumption of sauerkraut and walnuts on
2024-09-21.

## 2024-09-22 and 2024-09-23: everything seemed normal

By the morning of 2024-09-22, I was back to normal.

## 2024-09-24: return of sensations

On 2024-09-24 my attention was drawn to it again (there was no pain or
discomfort per se, but my mind was noticing it way more than it had
for the past two days). I'm not sure what the deal is, since I've been
very conservative with my food choices owing to the [anal
swelling](2024-09-20-anal-swelling.md). I wonder if there's some
psychological cycle going on here, or if it actually got worse. Going
forward, my plan is to do a daily visual check and tongue probe even
when my attention is not drawn to it so that I can see how the
underlying picture is changing.

I tried hard to use my phone to take a photo, but the phone camera
resolution just didn't seem good enough to take the photo, and it was
also hard to manage holding the phone while pulling my inner lip out
enough for the swelling to be visible.

## 2024-09-25: sensation subsides and I resume walnuts at 50% capacity

On 2024-09-25, the sensation subsided -- although the swelling was
still visible on careful examination, it wasn't salient to my
tongue. I resumed consumption of walnuts at 50% of the usual capacity,
but I made sure to use the left side of my mouth and not have the
walnut pieces come close to the site.

## 2024-09-26: return of sensation while I continue walnuts at 50% capacity

On 2024-09-26, sensation in the area returned. I continued walnuts
consumption at 50% capacity.

I was puzzled by the yoyoing of the sensation. I tried hard to take a
photo, but failed. So here are my notes on what it looks like:

* Both the way it feels to the tongue and the way it looks, there is a
  slight swelling. There is another smaller swelling to its immediate
  left (for me) that I can see in the mirror but it's too small to
  feel with the tongue when I'm not looking. There are a few other
  smaller protrusions.

* There is no clear color difference between these and the surrounding
  tissue, except that one part of the bigger swelling has a little bit
  of a bright red portion on its lower right area.

* The thing that my tongue is feeling is that there's a slight
  protrusion from the top of the swelling which is likely the dead
  skin on top, making it thicker. It's possible that the accumulation
  and removal (by friction) of the layers of swelling are what
  contribute to the yoyoing of my sensation.

* Unlike many online pictures of mouth ulcers / canker sores, there is
  no "white" area per se. There is also not that much of a bright red
  area.

* From what I remember of the actual bite/impact, it was a larger line
  than any of the individual swellings, and the swellings likely just
  reflect different parts of the bite.

* Another way to describe what I see is that it looks like a big
  bubble on top of the lip -- a mostly transparent coating. And it
  feels like its purpose is to provide protection to the red area on
  its lower right portion.

* So I think what I should actually be monitoring is whether that
  bright red thing I see gradually heals into pink. The degree of
  swelling could vary due to swelling coming off by friction, but as
  long as the underlying wound is still not healed, the problem isn't
  solved.

* Although my attempt to take a photo doesn't capture a good
  resolution enough to show the problems, it does seem to show a color
  gradient of a deep pink around the area, which I don't see in real
  life. This might be averaging the deep red wound area with the
  surrounding area and then smoothing it out.

## 2024-09-27: the area turns pink in the morning and stays that way

### Update in the morning, around 9 AM, after brushing my teeth

On the morning of 2024-09-27, I examined the area again after brushing
my teeth. At this time, I did not notice any clear deep red portion --
it was all pink, maybe with a very slight reddening. This suggests
that it has healed. I also wasn't feeling much sensation in the
area. So, it looks like monitoring the color evolution between red and
pink might indicate the healing.

It will be interesting to see if there are particular triggers that
cause the area to turn red, which would suggest that there are things
I am doing that are interfering with or even reversing the healing
process.

Another anecdotal observation I have is that having moisture/saliva in
the general vicinity of the area seems to reduce my sensation of the
thing, and *may* also promote healing. So, one trick that may work is
to either generate more saliva or redirect the existing saliva I have
to the area and let it sit there. I think this may be a mechanical
protective effect where it prevents the area from rubbing against
other areas.

### Update the next morning based on checks throughout the day

The color stayed pink through the day and I didn't have any
aggravation.

## 2024-09-28: the area stays pink in the morning

### Update in the morning, around 9 AM, after brushing my teeth

The area stayed pink and I continued to not experience any sensation
in the area.

### Update the next morning based on checks throughout the day

The color stayed pink through the day and I didn't have any
aggravation.

## 2024-09-29: the area stays pink in the morning

### Update in the morning, around 9 AM, after brushing my teeth

The area stayed pink and I continued to not experience any sensation
in the area.

### Resumption of sauerkraut in the evening

In the evening, as the area had stayed pink and was no longer
generating a notable sensation for the past few days, I resumed
sauerkraut at about 25-50% of usual levels.

## 2024-09-30: the area stays pink but I briefly experience increased sensation

On 2024-09-30, in the morning, I briefly noticed increased sensation,
but the raea had stayed pink and the increased sensation dissipated
later in the morning. However, I also noticed a little bit of a sense
of reflux that I had not noticed for the past few days.

To be on the safer side, my plan is to skip sauerkraut today
(2024-09-30) and maybe have it once more on 2024-10-01, then skip it
until 2024-10-12, which is anyway mostly needed in light of the
upcoming dental cleaning appointment on 2024-10-09.

## 2024-10-01 to 2024-10-08: no further recording; no increase of inflammation

Starting 2024-10-01, I stopped further recording. There was no
increase of inflammation or redness in the area.

## 2024-10-09: seeming resurgence of redness

On 2024-10-09, after my second meal, I experienced increased sensation
in the area. On visual examination, I confirmed a resurgence of
redness. Overall, the picture (both physical and experiential) closely
matched what I had documented for 2024-09-26.

### Immediate trigger: hot food consumption

The immediate trigger was the consumption of my meal, which included a
potatoes prep served from the stove, so it was hotter than usual, and
included tomatoes. This is likely to be the thing that inflamed the
area. However, it is suspicious for this to happen suddenly after
about two weeks of things being quiet. I've had hot tomatoes before
withount incident!

### Potential aggravator: recent dental cleaning

One thing of note is that earlier in the day, I had a [dental
cleaning](2024-10-09-dental-cleaning.md). I think the dental cleaning
could have increased the sensivity in any of these ways:

* Temporary reduction in saliva / increase in dryness

* Slight injury from the moving around of sharp instruments in the
  mouth, that may not have been enough to inflame the area by itself
  but may have made it more sensitive.

  I did notice the sharp end of the instrument did brush against an
  area of my lower lip but I believe it was more on the left than the
  mouth bite area. There may also have been some stretching or pulling
  of the area that made it more sensitivty.

* Increased sensitivity due to residues of other materials or for
  other reasons.

My plan is to monitor for a day or two, and wait that much before
attempting to resume walnuts and sauerkraut.

### Interaction with resurgence of abdominal pain and other situational factors

Leaving this in as a placeholder that I might expand upon later.

## 2024-10-10: further evolution

As of 2024-10-10, the redness appears to have reduced but the size /
swelling may have increased a little bit. I think it went through a
healing process overnight that was not very complete.

By the evening of 2024-10-10, it seemed back to pink but still seemed
a bit swollen compared to usual; my subjective sense (prior to
looking) mirrored what I was seeing in the mirror.

## 2024-10-11: seemingly back to baseline (almost)

As of 2024-10-11, the area is pink and I don't feel much sensation in
it. I think we're close to being back to baseline. I feel like the
healing was fastest while I was sleeping (on both 2024-10-09 and
2024-10-10).
