# 2024-06-13: slight tingling sensation

Growing over the day, I had a slight tingling sensation suggesting
nervous hypersensitivity, and some markers of abdominal fullness that
were reminiscent of but much milder than my previous abdominal
pain. The sensation was barely noticeable in the morning, and really
became noticeable after my second meal. I suspect it was a side-effect
of overstretching the previous day (though I did get 8 hours of sleep
and was moderately refreshed at the end), some overstimulation in the
morning, overexercising in the morning, maybe having a bit more food
than I should have in the evening, and maybe keeping food out a bit
longer than usual (though I really doubt that this caused any
issues). It seemed to get a lot better overnight and I ended up
sleeping 9 hours that night.

## Likely causes

### Residual fatigue from Portland trip

I think there's still some residual fatigue from the Portland trip,
which is not a big deal if I'm relaxing at home but can conflict with
increased levels of exercise.

### Slightly inadequate sleep

On 2024-06-12 evening, I felt a sudden surge of sleep around 11 PM and
went to sleep rather quickly -- so I suspect that the condition may
have started around then. I did feel reasonably refreshed when I got
up shortly after 7 AM, but I think I would have felt even better
sleeping in an hour or so more, but I couldn't do that because the
whole Portland trip experience had switched my sleep cycle to earlier
and I haven't fully switched out.

### Overstimulation in the morning

I may have overstimulated myself with some stuff in the morning on 2024-06-13.

### Overexercise and eating too soon after

In the two days (2024-06-08 and 2024-06-09) after my Portland trip, I
had taken a break from exercise. I resumed exercise on 2024-06-10 and
have been increasing the proportion of jogging relative to walking. On
2024-06-13, I went jogging a little earlier than usual, and then came
back and ate around 15-20 minutes after coming back, which is a bit
more compressed of a timeline than usual. This was in order to finish
eating before a work meeting. I think in this case the inadequate gap
to eating may have led to a little bit of digestive challenge.

### Overeating

As the food was very tasty, I may have eaten too much relative to my
overall profile of exercise (even though I jogged too much, I have not
yet resumed strength exercises but I'm still eating).

## Sequel

For the sequel the next day, see [2024-06-14 abdominal
heaviness](2024-06-14-abdominal-heaviness.md).
