# 2024-09-27 onward: minor inflammation of lower neck

## Initial symptoms and progression

### 2024-09-27

At night on 2024-09-27, while having a bath, I noticed that the hot
water was irritating my lower neck area right around the clavicle. The
irritation was off and on, and when I looked in the mirror, I didn't
see anything at the skin level, so I assumed it was an internal strain
of some sort.

### 2024-09-28

At night on 2024-09-28, I noticed a red inflammation, of the sort that
I might get with a bite, in the lower neck at the center (not left or
right) with a "bite" site and a bit of redness surrounding it. This
was weird because as far as I remembered I had not been bitten or
encountered any stimulus of the sort.

Separately, earlier in the day on 2024-09-28, I had noticed a little
sore/boil/pimple on the right side of my neck (this is an area at the edge of
where I shave, but I don't think it was induced by shaving -- but it
might have been). All the others were *not* within the area I
regularly shave as part of face shaving and the timing of those is
definitely not explained by recent shaving.

I tried to take photos with my phone camera but it did not have the
ability for high resolution at such close range.

### 2024-09-29

On the morning of 2024-09-29, I put a water block flex bandage over
the bite-like area and an ordinary bandage over the sore/boil/pimple
on the lower neck.

In the evening, I took off the ordinary bandage over the
sore/boil/pimple, but kept the water block flex bandage on. The water
block flex bandage survived my bath without any dislodging. Seems like
waterproof bandages basically work as advertised when not on the hands!

## 2024-09-30

The water block flex bandage appears to have survived overnight and is
still intact in the morning.

## Muscle strain as a potential explanation

Currently, the most likely potential explanation is that in the last
few days, I've ramped up the frequency and intensity of my efforts
with the 200 lb hand gripper. These efforts may have caused some
strain to my head and neck muscles that was not immediately obvious.

My plan is to stay away from the 200 lb hand gripper for a little bit,
and to instead look into other exercises to generally improve head and
neck strength, while separately improving finger and wrist strength by
doing the 100 lb hand gripper with fewer fingers. Within a few days,
it will hopefully become clear if stopping the 200 lb hand gripper
allows for recovery. If necessary, I will also pause the 100 lb and
150 lb hand grippers.
