# 2024-09-03: blood tests

See [2024 blood test plans](2024-blood-test-plans.md) for background information.

## Order and appointment

### Order (2024-08-27)

I placed the order on Tuesday 2024-08-27 on Request A Test for the tests to be
done by Quest Diagnostics. The total cost was $431.

These were the included tests:

* [Insulin](https://requestatest.com/insulin-testing): $59
* [HbA1c with eAG](https://requestatest.com/hemoglobin-a1c-with-eag-testing): $39
* [Lipid panel](https://requestatest.com/lipid-panel-testing): $36
* [Omega-3](https://requestatest.com/omega-3-blood-test): $129
* [Vitamin panel, basic (B12, D, and folate)]( https://requestatest.com/basic-vitamin-deficiency-panel-vitamin-b12-d-folate-blood-test): $109
* [CBC with differential and comprehensive metabolic panel](https://requestatest.com/complete-blood-count-cbc-and-comprehensive-metabolic-panel-cmp-blood-test): $59

I received a confirmation within a few hours of placing the order.

### Appointment booking with Quest Diagnostics (2024-08-28)

On Wednesday 2024-08-28, I received an email from Quest Diagnostics
confirming that they had received the order. I proceeded to book an
appointment with Quest Diagnostics. I chose a date of Tuesday
2024-09-03, which was the earliest date wth an available
appointment. I chose a time of 10:10 AM, which was the earliest
available time, although I likely would not have picked a much earlier
time in any case.

### Setup of calendar reminders

I set all my calendar reminders based on the blood test time.

## Preparatory steps

### Pausing of supplements (2024-09-01 onward)

On Saturday 2024-08-31, after the morning supplement consumption, I
packed the supplements from my table into a plastic bag so that I
would not accidentally consume them starting the next day.

Starting Sunday 2024-09-01, I stopped consuming all supplements.

### Trader Joe's trip (2024-09-01)

On Sunday 2024-09-01, in the early afternoon, I finished my last
Trader Joe's trip prior to the appointment, stocking enough food that
I would not need to go shopping to Trader Joe's for 48 hours after the
blood test. However, I might still end up getting more vegan yogurt
from Berkeley Bowl, which is close by and relatively light.

### Weather check (2024-09-01 evening)

On the evening of 2024-09-01, I did a weather check to confirm that
the weather for the time of my appointment was fine.

### Skipping of all exercise (2024-09-02 onward)

On 2024-09-02, the day prior to the blood test, I am skipping all
exercise.

### End of meal the previous evening (2024-09-02)

I finished my main meal at 7:16 PM. I last ate a little bit of food at
7:40 PM as part of cleanup.

### Sleep

I got into bed around 11:05 PM and went to sleep around 11:15 PM.

## Day of the test

### Early morning

I briefly woke up at 6:30 AM to urinate, then went back to bed to
rest. As I had slept a little less than usual the previous night, I
stayed in bed in a semi-sleepy state till my alarm for 7:30 AM
triggered. I then got out of bed.

I went for my morning bowel movement at around 7:55 AM, after
finishing morning checks on my computer.

After being done with my bowel movement, I did some dishwashing and
then did a few small items.

At around 8:55 AM I went for my bath.

### Heading out

I started getting ready to head out at around 9:25 AM, after my bath.

I did one round of urination at around 9:25 AM.

I drank some water at around 9:30 AM, more than I normally would, in
light of the upcoming loss of water through the blood draw.

I left my place at around 9:40 AM.

I arrived at the Quest Diagnostics center at 2999 Regent Street
shortly after 10 AM. The reporting time range was 10 AM to 10:20 AM,
with an appointment time of 10 AM.

### Check-in process

I checked in using the kiosk. I chose the express option, where I just
had to enter my phone number and scan my California state ID card
(front and back) and it would autofill my address and other details
from there to check me in.

The process finished at around 10:05 AM and I was in the queue.

### Waiting

I waited just outside the test center room till around 10:09 AM, then
went back inside. Another person who was also waiting for the same
appointment time but had checked in before me was called in first, and
I was called in a few minutes later.

Right before I was called in, it was announced that they were unable
to service walk-ins today due to a shortage of staff.

### Blood draw

For the blood draw, I initially got my California state ID card out
again for identification but was told it wasn't needed, as the details
were on screen.

The phlebotomist printed out a bunch of documents and had me confirm
my name and date of birth. She also asked me to confirm that I had not
eaten any food this morning.

I asked for the blood to be drawn from my right arm. I was asked to
stretch out my right arm. A tightening thing was tied around my arm
just a little above the point of blood draw, and then the blood draw
process began. There were four vials to be filled, and correspondingly
four stickers with my name on them.

The phlebotomist began the blood draw process, going through the vials
one by one. I kept my palm open and my hand relaxed. The blood draw
process was mildly painful, and for the most part I closed my eyes
while going through it.

When the blood draw was done, she asked me to hold on to the gauze and
press it, while she got the tape to fix the gauze. She told me to keep
it on for 20 minutes.

I was then asked to confirm my name on the stickers and sign and write
my name on a document.

### Other discussion

I asked the phlebotomist what the normal wait time is for
walk-ins. She said it is usually 1-2 hours, depending on whether
people with appointments show up, but that for situations like today,
walk-ins may not be able to get service.

### Return home

I left at around 10:25 AM.

I walked back home and drank more water after getting back home.

I then headed out to Berkeley Bowl for food purchases.

The gauze and tape came out while I was putting my purchased items in
my grocery bag. As it was well past 20 minutes at this point, I did
not immediately re-bandage the area. I folded my right arm to reduce
the exposure to insects or irritants until I got home. After getting
back home, I applied a flex bandage to the area, to reduce the risk of
accidental irritation.

I removed the flex bandage at around 6:30 PM as it was pinching my
skin. The prick seemed to have fully healed by this time.

## Future days

### 2024-09-04: resumption of some exercises

I resumed breath holds, standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed, and
jogging on 2024-09-04. For jogging, due to the heat and some fatigue,
I only did the minimum 1.4 miles out of 2 miles.

I continued to refrain from hand gripper exercises and strength
exercises.

### 2024-09-06: resumption of hand gripper exercises for the left hand

I resumed hand gripper exercises for the left hand, as per the
schedule.

### 2024-09-08: resumption of hand gripper exercises for the right hand

I resumed hand gripper exercises for the right hand, as per the
schedule.

## 2024-09-09: resumption of strength exercises

I resumed strength exercises, six days after my blood tests. This was
a day earlier than my plan (7 days after the blood tests).
