# 2024-11-29: reduced hearing in left ear

## Overall summary

Here's what happened:

* I subjectively experienced compression of my left ear and a sense
  that I wasn't hearing that well in that ear when I woke up on
  2024-11-29. I verified the hearing imbalance later in the day.

* I checked every 3-4 days and confirmed that a hearing imbalance
  existed, but did not quantify it well until 2024-12-17. This
  reflected my ignorance of how to quantify hearing loss.

* On 2024-12-17 I did two kinds of test for a more thorough
  evaluation.

  * I determined the minimum volume in each ear where the words and
    other sounds of [Ellie Goulding - Love Me Like You Do (Fifty
    Shades Freed) (Official
    Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVVaqFDG6Fo) were audible.

  * I did the online test at
    https://www.resound.com/en-us/online-hearing-test that tested my
    hearing in each ear at frequencies of 500 Hz, 1000 Hz, 2000 Hz,
    and 4000 Hz.

  Both of these confirmed hearing disparities between the ears. The
  test of different frequencies highlighted that the disparity between
  the ears gets more pronounced at higher frequencies, with the
  disparity really extreme at 4000 Hz. This means that when it comes
  to low-pitched sounds, the ears are not that different, but when it
  comes to higher-pitched sounds, the left ear has a lot more trouble.

* I repeated both tests on 2024-12-21, with a slightly more detailed
  evaluation, and got very similar results, though it seemed that I
  was able to make out the words with my left ear at slightly lower
  volume.

Based on this, these are the characteristics of my hearing loss:

* Seemingly sudden, though I do not have similar data prior to
  2024-11-29. However, I do know that prior to 2024-11-29, when I used
  headphones, they sounded balanced between the ears, whereas know,
  they feel like they are about 60:40 toward the right ear.

* Seemingly more loss at high frequencies, with the biggest loss at
  4000 Hz and the second biggest loss at 2000 Hz.

* Overall magnitude of difference between the ears (for a blended
  track) seems to be somewhere between 10 dB and 20 dB.

## Onset on 2024-11-29 and initial notes until 2024-12-17

NOTE: The initial notes are based on a poor understanding of how
hearing works. The later sections include better evaluations of the
situation.

On 2024-11-29, when I woke up in the morning, I noticed that my left
ear felt a bit compressed. I also noticed that audio seemed to be a
little less loud than usual, though I could still hear it clearly.

In the evening, I decided to do a test with my computer. I played a
single tune and shifted the microphone balance from 100% left to 100%
right. Overall, the 100% right felt a little louder (about 1.5x). I
also verified that when the balance was at 50% it felt a little louder
in my right ear, and moving it to about the 40:60 mark led to the
balance feeling even.

I also compared volume levels to confirm this ratio of about 1.5 (a
volume of 1.5x in the left ear felt like the same subjective volume as
1x in the right ear).

Unfortunately I don't have a prior benchmark to know whether my
hearing was balanced between the ears earlier.

My suspicion as of 2024-11-29 is that this is because I slept for a
long time on my left side. In fact, hearing in both ears may be
reduced somewhat, but the left side is differentially more affected
and that's what I am noticing. Based on Googling, it does seem like
sleeping on one side for long can be a contributor to more earwax
buildup that can reduce hearing. My guess is that this will subside
after some time, but my plan is to sleep more on my right side to help
address the issue.

I'll continue monitoring for the next few days and see if the hearing
situation persists.

UPDATE 2024-11-30: The situation seems similar (about a ratio of 1.5).

UPDATE 2024-12-02: The situation seems similar (about a ratio of 1.5).

UPDATE 2024-12-04: I feel like the situation is more balanced; the
ratio feels more like 1.25 now, and I don't feel that sense of
compression/heaviness in my left ear. I think this is close enough to
balanced, but I plan to do another check on 2024-12-07.

UPDATE 2024-12-07: The hearing balance seems to still be around a
ratio of 1.25. I've set a reminder to do another check on 2024-12-10.

UPDATE 2024-12-10: The hearing balance seems to still be around a
ratio of 1.25. I've set a reminder to do another check on 2024-12-13.

UPDATE 2024-12-10: The hearing balance seems to still be around a
ratio of 1.25. I've set a reminder to do another check on 2024-12-13.

UPDATE 2024-12-13: The hearing balance seems to still be around a
ratio of 1.25. I've set a reminder to do another check on 2024-12-16
(later deferred to 2024-12-17).

UPDATE 2024-12-17: The hearing balance seems to still be around a
ratio of 1.25, though I now feel like it's hard to really
differentiate within the 1.25-1.5 range.

The persistence of this issue led me to decide to dig more deeply into
the topic.

## More comprehensive evaluation on 2024-12-17

### More thorough testing of minimum audible volume

My previous testing was based on testing when sounds are equally loud
to the left and right ear. However, that requires more of a subjective
judgment. I decided to do something different -- take a soundtrack and
find the minimum volume at which I could make out the words when
playing it into my left and right ear.

The Macbook Air has a gradation of 16 levels and 64 sub-levels (the
sub-levels can be accessed by pressing alt+shift while adjusting the
level up or down).

I used the track [Ellie Goulding - Love Me Like You Do (Fifty Shades
Freed) (Official Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVVaqFDG6Fo)
for my testing.

Here's what I found:

* With the right ear, I was able to hear and make out the words (for a
  known soundtrack) at the lowest level (1 out of 64).

* With the left ear, I needed to be at a level of around 14 out of 64
  to be able to make out the words.

I can't find a clear decibel mapping of the levels, but the
guesstimate is that the max volume is about 75-90 decibels, so
assuming linear increase in decibels with each gradation, starting at
0 dB for a gradation of 1, that's a difference of about 15 to 19
decibels in hearing between my ears. This seems significant -- my
right ear hearing seems fine whereas my left ear hearing seems to be
reduced.

### Free online hearing test at resound.com

Source: https://www.resound.com/en-us/online-hearing-test

I used headphones and set the speakers to balanced at maximum volume.

Left ear:

* 500 Hz: very barely at 7 sometimes, definitely faintly at 8

* 1000 Hz: definitely faintly at 8

* 2000 Hz: very faintly at 9

* 4000 Hz: definitely faintly at 8

* Overall verdict: Possible loss; it's slightly in the yellow

Right ear:

* 500 Hz: very barely at 6 sometimes, definitely faintly at 7

* 1000 Hz: definitely faintly at 7

* 2000 Hz: definitely faintly at 5

* 4000 Hz: definitely faintly at 2

* Overall verdict: No loss detected; it's all green

## Re-evaluation on 2024-12-21

### Minimum volume test for audible words

I used the track [Ellie Goulding - Love Me Like You Do (Fifty Shades
Freed) (Official Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVVaqFDG6Fo)
on YouTube with the YouTube volume set to maximum, so I was only
adjusting my Macbook Air speaker volume. I used headphones.

* Left ear: I was barely able to make out the words at about 8/64
  volume, but tended to lose the thread of the words. It was only
  around 12/64 that I could consistently maintain the thread of the
  words. At around 20/64 I could get the words and some of the
  background music. To get the opening soft music properly, I had to
  get to around 32/64.

* Right ear: I was able to make out the words at 1/64 volume, though
  it took a few seconds to get my ear perked up, and there were a few
  parts where I lost the thread of the words. At 2/64 I was quite
  comfortably able to hear the words relying on the fact that I
  already knew them, though still not clearly hear the background
  music. At around 4/64, I could hear the words and some of the
  background music; at around 8/64, I could get the words and the main
  background music. To get the opening soft music properly, I had to
  go to around 16/64.

### Free online hearing test at resound.com

Source: https://www.resound.com/en-us/online-hearing-test

I used headphones and set the speakers to balanced at maximum volume.

Left ear:

* 500 Hz: barely at 7 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 8

* 1000 Hz: barely at 8 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 9

* 2000 Hz: barely at 10 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 11

* 4000 Hz: barely at 8 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 9

* Overall verdict: Possible loss; it's slightly in the yellow

Right ear:

* 500 Hz: barely at 5 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 6

* 1000 Hz: barely ay 7 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 8

* 2000 Hz: barely at 4 (this is what I selected), more clearly at 5

* 4000 Hz: barely at 2 ( this is what I selected), more clearly at 3

* Overall verdict: No loss detected; it's all green

## Call to Bekeley Hearing Center on 2024-12-23

On 2024-12-23, I made a phone call to Berkeley Hearing Center to book
an appointment for Wednesday 2025-01-15 3:45 PM. Call details are
[here](2024-12-23-berkeley-hearing-center-call.md).

## Research on and efforts toward earwax removal on 2024-12-24

On 2024-12-24, I began a bunch of research around earwax removal. The
goal was to figure out whether I could remove my earwax myself, and if
I did, to figure out the effect that removal had on my hearing. To
this end, I watched a bunch of videos:

* [How to safely remove ear wax at home using a bulb syringe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Ee0VtgwmyI) by Doctor O'Donovan
* [How to Use Ear Drops Properly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=65uAZr7TsAE) by Apotex Inc.
* [Ear Wax - Which Ear Drops are the best?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qos5xwAfTOI) by Vik Veer
* [Ear Wax- Which Ear Drops are the best? (followup video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkyX7KDzRzg) by Vik Veer

In the evening, I made a trip to Walgreens to get items that could
help with earwax removal. I ended up buying these items:

* Walgreens earwax removal drops (active ingredient: carbamide
  peroxide; this is a store brand equivalent of Debrox earwax removal
  drops)

* Earwax MD (active ingredient: sodium bicarbonate) from Eosera

* Walgreens earwax removal kit (this is a syringe design that is
  claimed to be superior to the bulb syringe that seems like the
  default)

After some thought after getting back home, I decided it's worth
trying the Earwax MD first. This uses sodium bicarbonate. The main
downside is that sodium bicarbonate, being alkaline, is not good to
apply repeatedly. So, it's important to limit to maybe two
applications within the space of a week. It also claims that it can
make significant progress in just one application, so my plan is to
see how that first application goes and pause if it doesn't succeed.

I watched the [How to on the Eosera
website](https://eosera.com/howto.html). My plan is to do this before
my bath on the night of 2024-12-24 *only for my left ear*, so I can
rinse out the ear as part of te bath. I plan to lie down for about 20
minutes total but I will see how things go and may end up lying down
for a little bit longer. I'll use the phone's timer to keep track of
time, and make sure that stuff is accessible to me while I'm lying
down on my right side, so that I can stay in position.

I also reviewed the [best practices around adding a topical treatment
protocol](../best-practices/best-practices-around-adding-a-topical-treatment-protocol.md)
which is intended to address loosely similar situations albeit still
somewhat different ones from these. Since I'm starting off by doing
this one-time rather than as an ongoing protocol, I don't need to
answer all the questions upfront. However, here are my current drafts
of answers.

* If there are different strengths and formulations, the difference
  between them: I watched some of the videos above to compare
  different formulations. Sodium bicarbonate is among the more
  effective, but may be unwise to apply frequently. The hope is that I
  make significant progress with the first application.

* Expected dose range: My plan is to limit myself to a single tube,
  and squeeze as much of it as I need to till my left ear feels full.

* Frequency range: I'm currently only planning to do this once to
  begin with, and at most one more time within the next week. I will
  re-evaluate after that.

* Minimum and maximum dose gap: Minimum gap of 1 day. No maximum gap.

* Impact of missing a dose -- is it advisable to double-dose, or just
  contine with other doses regularly? Don't double-dose.

* Any dependence or tolerance effects that are known: I'm not yet
  planning to do this often enough for such effects to become a
  concern.

Timing information: Based on the how-to, this is most convenient to do
before a bath so that I can wash the ear out properly.

Risk of getting in eyes: My plan is to keep my eyes closed during the
squeezing process, and for most of the 20 minutes waiting time after
that. If for whatever reason something does get in my eyes, it looks
like the priority will be to flush the eyes for a lengthy period of
time, and forgo the earwax removal benefits for this time.

Risk of getting on hands: The tube structure means that there
shouldn't be stuff getting on hands. Even so, I'll keep towels
handy to wipe my hands, and if a lot gets on hands I may again have to
abandon the earwax removal plan and focus on washing my hands first.

Other parts of the skin: My plan is to wipe off minor amounts that get
on the skin, but if a lot gets on and it's itching and burning, then
cleaning it up takes priority over earwax removal.
