# 2024-05: blood pressure machine and stethoscope inauguration

## 2024-05-07: order placed for blood pressure machine and stethoscope

On Tuesday 2024-05-07, after some investigation, I placed an order for a blood
pressure machine and a stethoscope. The idea is to be able to take
more readings at home in order to be able to monitor my health
better. This might also reduce the need for healthcare visits, that
can be both expensive and strenuous, as my [recent
experience](2024-04-30-urgent-care-visit-and-tests.md) shows.

## 2024-05-12: stuff picked up

On Sunday 2024-05-12, I picked up my stethoscope and blood pressure
machine.

## 2024-05-15: first use

On Wednesday 2024-05-15, I did my first round of blood pressure
measurements using the blood pressure machine. These measurements are
recorded in
[blood_pressure_readings.sql](../sql/blood_pressure_readings.sql).

I also used the stethoscope for the first time. Here are a few gotchas:

* I need to make sure the blue due connecting to the chest/diaphragm
  of the stethoscope is aligned with whichever part I want to hear. If
  not, I should rotate it till it is.

* I need to insert the stethoscope in the correct orientation (i.e.,
  don't interchange the ears). The alignment needs to be very good for
  the sounds to be clear.

If both of these are true, tapping on the activated side should
produce a deep and loud vibration. In fact, I should be picking up
audible background noise even when the side in question is placed on a
stationary table. With the wrong orientation, there's still more sound
than if I didn't have the stethoscope in at all, but it is much
softer.

I was able to use the chest side of the stethoscope to measure my
heart rate and hear my heart sounds. I got about 52 beats per minute.

I was able to use the diaphragm side of the stethoscope to listen to
my bowel sounds. This gives me a sense of what my bowel sounds are
like. At minimum the absence of these sounds, or *very* different
sounds, would be something I can identify.

I am still mulling the cadence, but my current plan is to make blood
pressure readings and stethoscope examination of heart sounds and
diaphragm, a monthly process. For the blood pressure readings, the
plan is to record them in
[blood_pressure_readings.sql](../sql/blood_pressure_readings.sql). I
haven't decided the recording modality for the stethoscope.
