# 2024-10-17: anal swelling

This is a swelling of the upper anus. Unlike the [2024-09-20
swelling](2024-09-20-anal-swelling.md) it doesn't seem to be due to a
fissure.

## Initial symptoms and development

### 2024-10-14 (prelude)

On this day, I consumed two foods containing capsaicin, one of which I
continued for the next few days.

In my potatoes prep, I reintroduced cayenne pepper in the food for the
first time in several weeks (roughly since my previous anal
swelling). The amount was fairly small (well under one gram) to be
distributed across several days of consuming the prep, so it's not
much on its own.

I also ate kimchi for the first time in several weeks
(roughly since my previous anal swelling).

Although I didn't have kimchi in subsequent days, the cayenne pepper
continued to be part of my pepared meals for the next few days.

### 2024-10-16 (prelude)

On this day, I talked for about 4 hours (of 4.5 hours calendar time)
in a meeting with work colleagues. Per my [best practices around
fasting](../../best-practices/best-practices-around-fasting.md), I
refrained from consuming walnuts for that day and the next day, and
also refrained from consuming sauerkraut for that day and the next two
days.

This also happened to be the last day of the week of [Atrantil
consumption](2024-10-02-atrantil-purchase.md).

### 2024-10-17

I noticed a burning sensation in the anus after bowel movement. I then
forgot about it but noticed it again when going jogging. But it was
mild and I didn't think much about it.

### 2024-10-18

I noticed sensations in my upper anus and a slight swelling after
bowel movement. Then I forgot about it but my attention was drawn to
it intermittently. I didn't think to take any action until later in
the evening, but by that time I had already done another meal prep and
included cayenne pepper in it.

This was also the day I resumed walnuts consumption having exhausted
the two days after the long talking session.

Unlike the incident of 2024-09-20, I did not have anal spasms or a
strong urge for anal sphincter contraction. Even when I did do a full
anal contraction, it did not cause a sharp pain, being either
pleasant, neutral, and mildly unpleasant.

### 2024-10-19 and 2024-10-20

Symptoms were largely similar to late 2024-10-18, but I did notice
that voluntary full anal contractions were a little more consistently
unpleasant. The burning sensation had reduced and it was more about
the swelling making bowel movement a little more pleasant.

2024-10-19 was the day I resumed sauerkraut consumption.

On 2024-10-20, the painfulness of voluntary anal sphincter contraction
was clearly higher, and the urge for it was also higher. My rough
sense is that it compared with the level I had experienced on
2024-09-24, after the two-day peak of 2024-09-22 and 2024-09-23.

I did not include cayenne pepper in my potatoes prep for 2024-10-20.

### 2024-10-21

There seems to be a recovery relative to 2024-10-20, and a return to
the level of 2024-10-19. I've continued refraining from consuming
walnuts and sauerkraut.

## Comparison with previous anal swelling incidents

* There was no visible change to the quantity or nature of my stool,
  though passing stool was a little more unpleasant once the swelling
  had materialized (around 2024-10-18).

* The swelling was in the upper anal region rather than the lower anal
  region.

* I did not observe any blood in the stool or on wiping, unlike the
  previous incidents.

* My urge for anal spasms was much lower and the painfulness of
  voluntary full anal sphincter contractions was lower; however, on
  2024-10-20, it did somewhat match the level it had been at in the
  2024-09 incident around 2024-09-24 (about two days after the peak).

## Theories

My main theory is that my capsaicin tolerance dropped a lot in the
weeks when I stopped capsaicin-containing foods, from an already-low
level (which might also have to do with the previous anal swelling
incident). The reintroduction of capsaicin at a nontrivial level
(compared to my baseline of zero) and its accumulation over a period
of a few days therefore led to the burning sensation.

It's also possible that pausing walnuts and sauerkraut may have
compounded the problem insofar as the acidity of sauerkraut provides a
counterbalance to the alkaline capsaicin.

It's also possible that the anal swelling is a
continuation/manifestation of my [abdominal
discomfort](2024-10-08-onward-abdominal-discomfort-and-other-symptoms.md). I
do feel some correlation between discomfort below the belly button and
greater sensation in the anal swelling area.

The anal swelling on 2024-09-20 had marked a kind of tail end to the
original abdominal discomfort, so I'm curious if this anal swelling
also marks a tail end.
