# 2024-09-20: anal swelling

This is anal swelling that, based on symptoms, is likely due to an
anal fissure.

See also [2021-09-12 anal swelling](../2021/2021-09-12-anal-swelling.md).

## Initial symptoms and development

### 2024-09-20

On the evening of 2024-09-20, I noticed a slight itching pain in my
lower anus. The itch largely happened only when I contracted the area
using my muscles, but I also felt an urge to do this contraction.

On inspection, there was a bit of swelling in the area where I was
experiencing the itch.

### 2024-09-21

I had a normal bowel movement the next day (2024-09-21) and no clear
increase in effort, discomfort, or pain for bowel movement. There was
also bleeding while wiping the area. The sensations in the area were
subdued during and before the bowel movement, and were greatest when
my bowel was empty.

### 2024-09-22

On 2024-09-22, I seem to have had a bit more effort with bowel
movement, but this isn't clearly related to the anal
swelling. However, I noticed a little bit of blood when wiping on
2024-09-22, albeit none in the stool itself. For comparison, last
time, the blood appeared in stool 3 days after the start of swelling
symptoms. It's not clear if the faster evolution is suggestive of
things being worse or being more likely to resolve quickly, or just a
matter of chance.

### 2024-09-23

My symptoms may have improved on 2024-09-23, but there was no clear
qualitative change.

### 2024-09-24

By 2024-09-24, I was experiencing a clear reduction in the frequency
of the need for anal spasms, and in general felt better. The swelling
also seemed to have reduced. However, after dinner, there was a brief
increase in the burning sensation that subsided within an hour or so.

### 2024-09-25 to 2024-09-29

I continued to experience improvement through 2024-09-25 and
2024-09-26 (despite resuming walnuts on 2024-09-25), though it was
hard to get a clear moment-to-moment trajectory of improvement. But
overall, my frequency and painfulness of anal spasms continued to
reduce and my mind was less distracted by the situation; there were
times when I couldn't even perceive a problem in the area by casually
directing my mind to it.

There continued to be gradual improvements through 2024-09-27 to
2024-09-29. As of 2024-09-29, I feel much less swelling and the
problem seems to be close to solved, though if I deliberately do a
significant contraction I do notice a little pain (but I have no urge
to do that significant of a contraction).

### 2024-09-30: self-declaration of being free of symptoms that get in my way

As of the morning of 2024-09-30, after having a normal bowel movement
even after consuming sauerkraut the previous night, I'm self-declaring
as being free of symptoms that get in my way. However, the swelling is
not completely gone and I should do weekly updates monitoring both the
size of the swelling and my subjective sensation after a deliberate
anal sphincter contraction.

### 2024-10-13: check-in update

On 2024-10-13, after being mostly free of symptoms, I did a
check-in. First, I confirmed that deliberate anal contractions caused
me only minimal discomfort, not too different from what it used to
before the swelling. Second, I checked the magnitude of the swelling
and confirmed that it has significantly reduced.

## Strategies and their implementation

### Food

#### Walnuts

I paused consumption of walnuts on 2024-09-21. I resumed consumption
on 2024-09-25 at a rate of about 50% of my usual consumption. As of
2024-09-26 morning, I do not appear to have experienced any clear
adverse effects from resuming walnuts.

#### Sauerkraut and kimchi

I paused sauerkraut and kimchi starting 2024-09-21. I may resume
sauerkraut briefly around 2024-09-28 but will have to pause it again
starting 2024-10-03 in preparation for an upcoming dental cleaning
appointment.

I resumed sauerkraut at around 25-50% of usual levels on 2024-09-29
with my evening meal.

### Pain management: anal contractions and spasms

I combined the learnings from [last
time](../2021/2021-09-12-anal-swelling.md) with a bunch of YouTube
research. I found the videos of [Albert Chung (Your Friendly
Proctologist)](https://www.youtube.com/@yourfriendlyproctologist) very
helpful.

Last time, I had talked about how the pain was exacerbated by
significant movement of the muscles (which I called expansion or
contraction, though with my updated understanding it's always
contraction -- just of different muscles so the direction of movement
may effectively be different).

With my updated knowledge, it seems that the term for these
contractions, when not completely voluntary, is spasms, specifically
in this case anal spasms. Two videos from Albert Chung that are
helpful specifically around anal spasms are
[this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aJfQugckOoc) and
[this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iawLv2sFOIc). As Chung explains
in the second video, anal spasms exacerbate pain and pain increases
the urge for anal spasms.

#### Anal fissures can cause or exacerbate anal spasms

Anal fissues cause a pain or burning sensation, and can cause,
exacerbate, or increase the frequency of anal spasms.

#### What causes anal spasms in general, and might I have a problem of anal spasms in general?

Outside of anal swelling / anal fissures (this time and last time), I
haven't directly noticed anal spasms. However, I might still have them
-- they just don't cause pain when I don't have anal swelling. So
right now it's not clear to me if I have a problem of anal spasms in
general, or just in the context of fissures. Once this fissure is
repaired, I should monitor to see if I have anal spasms.

Based on my understand, the cause of anal spasms in general is tight
anal sphincter muscles; other tight muscles in the area (such as
pelvic floor muscles) may also be contributors to anal spasms. Some of
these exercises may be worth continuing over the long term at a low
frequency to maintain and verify looseness of my anal sphincter
muscles.

So this is uncertain but it'll be good to monitor and learn.

#### How does physical activity relate to anal sphincter contraction?

What I've noticed is that when I engage in certain kinds of changes to
position, my anal sphincter muscles tighten naturally. I can minimize
the extent of this by making my position changes more slow and doing
them in a way that minimizes the effort applied on the anus.

For instance, when getting up from a seated position, I normally tense
up the anal sphincter muscle in preparation for weight
shifts. However, I can reduce the extent of this need to tense by
using my hands on a support and putting weight on my hands and feet,
and letting go of the hand support only after I am completely on my
feet. EDIT: It seems that with some practice, I have now been able to
avoid anal sphincter tightening when getting up, **even without using
my hands for support**, by leaning forward and making sure to put all
the weight on my feet. A similar approach works to prevent tightening
when sitting down. The process of getting up and sitting down is a
little slower than usual, but acceptable as a temporary adjustment.

Another situation where I've noticed anal sphincter tensing is when
gripping something very tightly, for instance, during hand gripper
exercises. The tightening only happens as I get to my limit for the
exercise, so it wouldn't happen for a level I am very comfortable
with. It's probably part of my body's general response of getting
everything tight in preparation for peak effort.

I suspect that this relation of physical activity to anal sphincter
contraction happens even outside of the anal fissure context, and that
normally this isn't an issue for me because it doesn't cause
pain. However, with this added knowledge, I can change my behavior in
cases where anal spasms cause me significant pain.

### It's not clear if thinking about the pain increases the chances of spasms

Previously, I had been of the view that thinking about the pain
increases the chances of spasms. I think there's some truth to this,
but less than it originally appeared to have. The problem is that the
causal arrow can go in either direction -- when my urge to have the
spasm is high, my conscious thoughts may be directed toward it.

### It seems true that a slight (relatively painless) contraction/relaxation reduces the urge for a bigger, more painful one

I had noted last time that succumbing to a slight (relatively
painless) contraction and relaxation reduces my urge for a bigger,
more painful one. My experience of this time suggests that that
continues to be true. However, it's difficult to employ as a conscious
strategy because my lack of fine-grained control makes it difficult to
control the magnitude of the contraction.

This is an area where exercise might help build finer control over the
long term.

## Possible causes and aggravating factors

* On 2024-09-18, two days before the start of the itching, I had Udupi
  Palace spinach masala dosa takeout for the first time after almost
  five months (my last takeout was 2024-04-24, before my [first round
  of abdominal pain](2024-04-25-abdominal-pain.md)). While in the past
  I've been very used to this level of consumption, my body may be
  unused to it now and this may have put more of a strain on my anus.

* I've been having ongoing abdominal discomfort issues over the past
  two months that I've been gadually recovering from, but have not
  fully recovered from. See
  [here](2024-07-18-excessive-morning-activity-and-abdominal-pain-in-the-afternoon.md)
  for details.

## Comparison with last time

My [previous experience](../2021/2021-09-12-anal-swelling.md) seems
similar, but based on both my documentation and my memory of the time,
it had been more painful that time.

### Differences in symptoms

* The way I describe the pain last time, I noticed clear pain "during
  major posture changes (sitting to standing)." I have not experienced
  this in the current iteration of pain.

* I haven't experienced bleeding (yet).  With that said, the previous
  time, the pain started on 2021-09-12 and bleeding was observed on
  2021-09-15, three days later, so there is still a possibility of a
  worsening trajectory.

### Differences in causal and modifying factors

* Last time, I had a need to suppress urination and bowel movement due
  to a toilet clog, that likely worsened symptoms.

* Both last time and this time, I suspect that recent outside food
  consumption (Mehak Indian Cuisine last time, Udupi Palace this time)
  played a causal role. However, last time, I had continued finishing
  up that outside food for days, whereas this time I had just one
  Udupi Palace meal and that's it.

* On the flip side though, this time I am still dealing with /
  recovering from abdominal discomfort issues that might be feeding
  the problem more.

* Related to the above, last time, my overall frequency of having
  outside food, both from Mehak Indian Cuisine and Udupi Palace, was
  quite high, which migh be good (as my GI tract was more designed to
  digest the food) and bad (if it led to systematic erosion of some
  capabilities).
