# Breath holds with history

## 2023-07-30: initial exploration

At the suggestion of my friend Issa Rice, who in turn had heard about
it from Mark Lippmann, suggested I try some Buteyko breathing
measurements and exercises and report my results to him. Issa Rice
would go on to write a [breathing
document](https://riceissa.github.io/breathing/) that is a great read.

### Control pause measurement from Howard Cooper

I tried the [control pause measurement as suggested by Howard
Cooper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XliOGg8Tl98&t=593s) at Issa's
suggestion. Or more specifically, I tried to first measure my control
pause: the duation for which I can comfortably hold my breath by
pinching my nose. In Cooper's language, "how long till you get a
definite urge to breathe". Howard Cooper also suggested doing multiple
iterations of holding the nose for *half* the control pause (the
duration just measured), after identifying the measured duration.

I wasn't exactly sure of the criterion for "definite urge to breathe",
but the physiological sense I got when I stopped was that my nostrils
were pushing at the fingers I was using to hold my nose. After 2-3
seconds of continuous pushing, I released my nose.

The measurements I got were in the range of 20 to 28 seconds.

After doing the exercise, I also watched the rest of the video
(including the earlier portion).

## Many small breath holds exercise from Neil Tranter

Also at Issa's suggestion, I tried the [guided many small breath holds
exercise by Neil
Tranter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wjZL0llp5Ac&t=388s). This
involves multiple iterations of holding the nose (for about 3-5
seconds) and regular breathing (for about 15-20 seconds). I did the
exercise along with the video, and did not need any rescue breaths. I
probably held my nose a little bit longer than the guidance in the
exercise due to some delay in responding.

Note that Tranter's suggested exercise is similar to Cooper's
suggested exercise, except that the duration for holding the nose is
set to 3-5 seconds rather than using half of the control
pause. However, whereas in the Cooper video I was focused primarily on
the control pause measurement, in the Tranter case I was focused on
execution of the actual exercise.

After doing the exercise, I also watched the rest of the video
(including the earlier portion).

### Other related reading and watching

Some other videos I watched in relation to Buteyko breathing include:

* [Help me overcome air hunger - "I can't stop focusing on my
  breathing"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RLMjvDYJL6Q) (a followup
  video by Howard Cooper to the one I had already watched)

* [How Do I Achieve a Higher Control Pause?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XvVzx9Msr1M)

* [Unblock Nose in Five Minutes - Buteyko Breathing Method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tgmKIwUqhkg)

* [When You Think Buteyko Won't Work For You, by Breathing Center](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oi1tvp7Mghs)

## 2024-05-16 update

As of 2024-05-16 (and continuing on from there), I have settled into
a routine of doing two max-pause breath holds in succession. I
generally do them in the morning (no food for 12 hours or more) or in
the evening before going jogging; this is generally at least two hours
after a meal). The process is as follows:

* I do a normal expiration (exhalation) and then immediately cover my
  nostrils wit my fingers (using face tissues so that my fingers
  aren't directly touching my nose) to hold my breath.

* I then keep my nostrils closed for as long as I can get myself
  to. This generally ranges from 40 seconds to 60 seconds.

* After I release my nostrils, I generally wait about a minute for my
  breathing to return to normal, then repeat the exercise. The second
  iteration generally has a similar duration as the first, of about 40
  to 60 seconds.

What else I do during the breath hold can vary:

* Sometimes I just close my eyes and relax. All else equal, my breath
  hold duration is a little higher in these cases. I've even in some
  cases managed max-pause breath holds of 65 seconds by relaxing with
  my eyes closed for most of the duration.

* At the other extreme, in other cases, I try one of the exercises
  from [Human Benchmark](https://humanbenchmark.com/) that can be
  executed with a single hand. My favorites are [sequence
  memory](https://humanbenchmark.com/tests/sequence) and [verbal
  memory](https://humanbenchmark.com/tests/verbal-memory), both of
  which can be easily played with a single hand. I've generally
  noticed my rate of errors for these exercise to be higher toward the
  end of the breath hold, reflecting my (temporary) cognitive
  deterioration.

Sensations I notice during the breath hold:

* The first 20 seconds feel fairly normal, though a little
  uncomfortable.

* Somewhere between 20 seconds and 30 seconds, I sometimes feel
  something going on with my eardrums, for instance, it getting
  compressed the way it would if I pressed my ears.

* Past 30 seconds, I start feeling some tingly sensations and
  discomfort, where I'm definitely exerting willpower to keep my
  nostrils closed.

* Past 40 seconds, I start feeling restless, and it is at around this
  time that I might start developing stronger aches in some
  areas. Areas with recurrent minor aches tend to ache much more
  significantly at this time. For instance, when I have generalized
  abdominal discomfort, I notice pain in the abdominal area go up
  quite a bit around this time.

* Previously, I used to experience a sensation of the nostrils pushing
  out on my fingers, but of late I have not experienced this sensation
  often (though it does happen occasionally).

Sensations I notice right after finishing the breath hold:

* I generally have an audible breathing out and breathing in right
  after the release. However, on most days I still continue to breathe
  nasally rather than having to open my mouth. In the past, it was
  more common for me to take one mouth breath right after finishing a
  max-pause breath hold.

* I may feel a little out of sorts for about 2-3 minutes after the
  second breath hold. If I am feeling generally unwell, the
  out-of-sorts feeling may continue longer (like 5-10 minutes).

