# Humming with intermittent pauses (with history)

See also [vocal note holds with history](vocal-note-holds-with-history.md).

## Goal and functional relevance

Although I don't talk a lot regularly, I do often need to have long
conversations, some of them at short notice, and being able to talk at
length without going out of breath is helpful.

This exercise is designed for a context of talking for several minutes
while taking only short pauses to catch my breath. Unlike vocal note
holds, the goal isn't to have a long note with no pause, but to be
able to cycle between vocal cord use and breathing in in a sustainable
fashion over a period of minutes.

## Current protocol as of 2024-12-06

The protocol is that I hum a tune continuously except specific beats
(e.g., 1 in every 8 beats) and I use that specific beat to pause my
hum and take a nasal inbreath.

There are three parameters here:

* The fraction of beats where I take an inbreath

* The duration of the inbreath (from which, along with the preceding
  information, the duration of the hum can be inferred)

* How long I can sustain this pattern

For training, I am using these songs:

* [Chennai Express theme
  song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6KtEqxGQbw) which is in a
  regular 4/4 meter so I can use powers of 2 easily, with roughly 8
  beats every 4.5 seconds, or each beat is about 562 ms.

I might also use these songs in the future:

* [No More War](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ADnsqiqAI8)

* [Official Game of Thrones Opening
  Credits](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7L2PVdrb_8) (this is in
  triple meter and is also trickier because the song has more of a
  progression, but I can just hum the main refrain)

For the Chennai Express theme song, my current observations are as follows:

* I can do the 1 in 32 beats for about 1 round but may feel out of
  breath and miss additional beats toward the end. I can then follow
  it up with 1 in 16 beats for one additional round. **This is my
  default.**

* I can do the 1 in 16 beats for a few rounds of the song
  comfortably.

* When jogging, right at the start of jogging, I can manage 1 in 8
  beats, but after a few minutes, I can only manage 1 in 4 (or even 2
  in 4) beats.

The protocol is to do one iteration of the first bullet point and at
least one iteration of the second bullet point shortly after.

For frequency, I should do this in the morning before going jogging,
roughly once every 6 days, determined as alternate days among days
that I am not doing weight-lifting, push-ups, dead hang, or
pull-ups. The exercise I'm alternating this with is [breath
holds](breath-holds-with-history.md).

## History

### Introduction on 2024-09-28

When I started this exercise on 2024-09-28, I was able to comfortably
do 1 in 8 and I could do 1 in 16 but with some fatigue. My initial
frequency was alternate days before going jogging.

### Update on 2024-11-16

On 2024-11-16, based on progress, I've upped the expectation to
comfortable do 1 in 16 and to be able to do 1 in 32 for almost one
round.

### Update on 2024-11-30 effective 2024-12-01

I'm reducing the frequency to once every 4 days, determined as
alternate days among days that I am not doing weight-lifting and
push-ups.

* I expect that reducing the frequency to once every 4 days will make
  it more of a "maintain" than a "build" exercise for the time
  being. If I see my performance maintained, I will be happy to keep
  this frequency for the time being. If I see my performance go down,
  though, I may need to return to the frequency of once every 2 days.

* By doing this only on days that I am not doing weight-lifting and
  push-ups, I am trying to balance out the exercise time between
  days. Generally, days that I do weight-lifting and push-ups tend to
  be days that I spend more time exercising, so saving time on those
  days by skipping breath holds can help. More balance between days in
  the time I spend exercising is helpful in terms of keeping my times
  for other daily activities (such as eating) consistent.

* The motivation for this change is partly the nature of winter: as I
  spend more energy staying warm, I have more of an appetite, which
  increases my time spent eating, cooking, buying food, and cleaning
  dishes. This puts more pressure on the rest of my time. My thinking
  as of now is that moving to a "maintain" mode during these months of
  greater time scarcity, at least for exercises where I am already at
  a reasonable level, makes sense. I can re-evaluate the situation in
  the summer; I expect to have some time freed up from reducing
  food-related work, *but* I don't yet know how I will want to direct
  that freed-up time.

## 2024-12-06 update

I am reducing the frequency of this exercise from once every 4 days to
once every 6 days; now I only do this exercise on days when I am not
doing either weight-lifting + push-ups or dead hang + pull-ups. This
accompanies an overall reduction in the frequency of those strength
exercises.
