# Standing on one leg with eyes closed (with history)

I've been doing exercises involving standing on one leg with eyes
closed for a while (likely since at least November 2021 when I started
weights), but on 2023-10-29 (and starting with information/practices
that I started collecting 2023-10-28) I've decided to flesh out the
practice and some variants of it.

## Standing on one leg with eyes closed: standard version

### Single iteration standard version, specific leg

The standard version of the exercise is as follows:

* Lift and fold one leg with my eyes open, facing my laptop

* Wait a few seconds to stabilize

* When the seconds counter on my laptop hits a multiple of 5, close my
  eyes, mentally noting the start time

* Try to stay balanced for as long as possible until I get fatigued or
  lose my balance

* When opening my eyes, immediately note the end time and calculate
  the difference

### Full iteration standard version, single leg

### Threshold duration (currently 27 seconds with adjustments for colder temperatures)

* Prior to 2023-10-28, the de facto threshold duration was 10 seconds

* Starting 2023-10-28, the threshold duration was increased to 12
  seconds

* Starting 2023-11-18, the threshold duration was increased to 14
  seconds

* Starting 2024-01-18, I followed this rule:

  * Baseline of 18 seconds

  * If I am doing the exercise after I return from jogging, no
    adjustment (18 seconds remains the target)

  * If I am doing the exercise without jogging or similar warmup, then
    temperature-based adjustment as follows. For every degree celsius
    that the indoor temperature is less than 20 degrees Celsius (68
    degrees Fahrenheit), I subtract 1 second.  For instance, if the
    indoor temperature is 15 degrees Celsius (59 degrees Fahrenheit),
    my target is 18 - (20 - 15) = 13 seconds.

  This temperature-dependence is based on the observation that my
  ability to stand on one leg with eyes closed is harder at colder
  temperatures.

* Starting 2024-05-07, I am increasing the baseline threshold to 20
  seconds, as I pretty consistently exceed 20 seconds on the first try
  nowadays. The new logic is:

  * Baseline of 20 seconds

  * If I am doing the exercise after I return from jogging, no
    adjustment (20 seconds remains the target)

  * If I am doing the exercise without jogging or similar warmup, then
    temperature-based adjustment as follows. If the temperature is 20
    degrees Celsius or higher, no adjustment. If the temperature is
    greater than 0 degrees Celsius and less than 20 degrees Celsius,
    then the temperature rounded down in degrees Celsius. If the
    temperature is less than 0 degrees Celsius, I shouldn't be doing
    this exercise!

* Starting 2024-07-15, I am increasing the baseline threshold to 23
  seconds, as I pretty consistently exceed 23 seconds on the first try
  nowadays. The new logic is:

  * Baseline of 23 seconds

  * If I am doing the exercise after I return from jogging, no
    adjustment (23 seconds remains the target)

  * If I am doing the exercise without jogging or similar warmup, then
    temperature-based adjustment as follows. If the temperature is 20
    degrees Celsius or higher, no adjustment. If the temperature is
    greater than -3 degrees Celsius and less than 20 degrees Celsius,
    then 3 + the temperature rounded down in degrees Celsius. If the
    temperature is less than -3 degrees Celsius, I shouldn't be doing
    this exercise!

* Starting 2024-08-08, I am increasing the baseline threshold to 27
  seconds, as I pretty consistently exceed 27 seconds on the first try
  nowadays. The new logic is:

  * Baseline of 27 seconds

  * If I am doing the exercise after I return from jogging, no
    adjustment (27 seconds remains the target)

  * If I am doing the exercise without jogging or similar warmup, then
    temperature-based adjustment as follows. If the temperature is 20
    degrees Celsius or higher, no adjustment. If the temperature is
    greater than -7 degrees Celsius and less than 20 degrees Celsius,
    then 7 + the temperature rounded down in degrees Celsius. If the
    temperature is less than -7 degrees Celsius, I shouldn't be doing
    this exercise!

### How the threshold duration is used

If I don't clear the threshold duration on my first attempt, I
continue to do attempts (total odd number of attempts) until the
median is the threshold duration or more. I try up to 9 attempts (so I
could stop at 3, 5, 7, or 9 attempts).

### Full retry

If I fail the full iteration, i.e., even after 9 attempts, I do not
have a median of 20 seconds (with threshold adjustment as needed) or
higher, this is likely due to temporary stability issues. The most
common reason is sleepy or trembling legs; this could be due to
ambient cold temperatures or having been seated too long.

In such a case, I should stand *with my eyes open* for up to two
minutes (i.e., either a full two minutes or however long I can stand)
on the same leg where I've failed. After success with that, I should
again retry the full iteration. (This retry might succeed at the first
try if I exceed the threshold on the first try).

### Overall exercise: both legs

For the overall exercise, I do the above for one leg, then after
completion I do it for the other leg.

### Triggers for overall exercise

I should do the overall exercise once before going out jogging, and
once after coming back from jogging and before any strength
exercises. If I'm doing strength exercises without having gone
jogging, I should make sure to do the overall exercise before strength
exercise.

If I do not plan to do strength exercises after returning from
jogging, and I already did the standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed
exercise successfully on the first try before leaving, I may or may
not do the standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercise; it depends
on my mood and time availability. However, if I was shaky with the
standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercise when I did it before
going jogging, it's a good idea to do it after returning to verify
that my balance is fine after the warmup of jogging (this is
particularly relevant for colder months).

On days where I cannot go jogging and am not doing strength exercises
due to fatigue, sickness, time constraints, or weather, I should
consider doing the standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercise if
I'm feeling minimally healthy enough and the time constraints are not
super-severe.

I might also discretionarily do the
standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed at other times of the day.

## Standing on one leg with eyes open: standard version

I already mentioned standing on one leg with eyes open as an exercise
I might do if I am not able to clear the threshold for standing on one
leg with eyes closed. However, separate from that, I should also do
the exercise of standing on one leg with eyes open (for two minutes or
however long I can maintain my balance) once a week, once for each
leg. Since this is a somewhat time-consuming exercise, I should
generally do it on a weekend day; it generally makes sense to do
before strength exercises, so I should do it on the weekend day that
I'm doing strength exercises.
