# 2016-11 to 2016-12: stomach pain and resolution

I'm writing this retrospectively in October 2022, almost six year
after the incident. My recollection may be flawed.

## Origin of pain

Some time in early November 2016, I experienced stomach pain; it
wasn't continuous but episodic and felt acute sometimes. I believe the
immediate trigger was a Thai red curry that was very spicy.

## Remedial measures

I stopped consuming the following foods:

* All Thai curries
* Chana Masala that I used to buy from Trader Joe's
* Hot chocolate (due to its milk content and also its sugariness)

My symptoms gradually improved over the next few weeks.

## Doctor visit

I scheduled a visit via Zocdoc with a gastro specialist Dr. Jeffrey
Aron at the 3838 California Street Center. It looks like my
appointment was made on November 29, 2016 for December 1,
2016. However, it got rescheduled to December 5, 2016.

The doctor asked me a bunch of questions in the appointment and took
various notes. The end result was that he felt that since I've already
started feeling better, there's probably nothing more to do for the
time being. But to be on the safe side, he ordered a bunch of tests. I
decided to get them done via LabCorp (he said using LabCorp or Quest
Diagnostics would likely be cheaper than using their own center, and
LabCorp's testing locations were conveniently placed relative to my
residence).

## Testing

I got the blood test taken on Monday, December 12, 2016. It was
somewhat unpleasant because a lot of blood needed to be drawn out for
the numerous tests that had been ordered. The nurse taking the test
also provided me with the collection kit for the stool test.

I took the stool test taken on Saturday, December 17, 2016. For the
stool test, the original location was closed on Saturdays but there
was another nearby location that I was able to use.

The results became available by mail and in the LabCorp portal
relatively soon. I accessed and downloaded them. Later, when making
the `diet-exercise-health` website, I entered the test results in the
SQL folder (see [sql/tests.sql](../sql/tests.sql),
[sql/test_sample_collections.sql](../sql/test_sample_collections.sql),
and [sql/test_results.sql](../sql/test_results.sql)).

## Followup action

I tried communicating with the doctor about the test results but got
no response -- it's possible that the doctor missed this because of
the Christmas holidays. But in any case the test results looked fine
and I was also feeling better, so there was nothing to do for the time
being.

## Return to normal life

Later in 2017, I resumed having hot chocolate, though I would
eventually phase it out in 2019 after
[2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md](dental issues) (I was somewhat
addicted to it and so didn't go cold turkey, instead reducing
gradually).

I didn't resume having the Trader Joe's channa masala, instead
switching to the veg biryani. I would later switch to misal curry and
eventually stop having these kinds of prepared foods altogether (in
early 2022).

I did resume having Thai food occasionally, but I stuck to less spicy
foods; I only went as far as yellow curry and didn't have the red
curry.

I did not experience similar stomach issues in the next 6 years.
