This document gives a rough timeline and sequence of events for head,
neck, jaw and tooth pains that would lead to setting up a dentist
visit.

## Monday, December 24 (2018-12-24)

On this day, I went out in the rain to Starbucks to get an almond hot
chocolate, and also did a takeout of a vegetarian thali from the
Indian place (Chaat Cafe). I ate the whole meal because I was quite hungry.

That day, I went to sleep early, at around 6:30. On previous days I
had been going to sleep relatively early (around 8 to 9 PM), but this
was even earlier than usual. I got up at 7 AM on the next day
(Tuesday, December 25) but was interrupted a few times by alerts. I
had a minor headache and pains but attributed them to the sleep
interruption.

## Tuesday, December 25 (2018-12-25)

I believe I was feeling somewhat tired (despite sleeping a lot of time
overall) but attributed it to a sleep backlog rather than specific
illness. I had a reasonably productive and quiet day.

I went to sleep at 7:30. I got up around 6:30 or 7, again with some
interruptions.

## Wednesday, December 26 (2018-12-26)

I had a reasonably productive day working from home. I went to sleep
at 8:30. I got up at 4:30 (so normal 8 hours of sleep). I had a bit of
a headache at night, and Googled for more details on tension
headaches. I was suspicious because it was disproportionately
affecting my left side. I wondered also if TMD might be the problem
(given that my jaw was also hurting).

I tried some general relaxation techniques I'm aware of, which reduced
the intensity of the pain.

## Thursday, December 27 (2018-12-27)

I had a reasonably productive day but felt physically lethargic toward
the evening. I was planning to get takeout again but realized that it
was cold and I was feeling lethargic, so I decided to just go home and
eat.

It was a little after dinner that I started feeling toothache
sharply. I identified the pain area as a seemingly swollen gum on my
lower left, but not visible easily to me in the mirror because it was
on the far left. At this point, I was also feeling more dryness and
irritation in my throat.

I went to sleep around 8:45.

I had a lot of trouble sleeping that night, because I could not rest
on my left side due to the pain, and had to basically rest on my right
side almost all night.

I woke up in the middle of the night (partly due to an alert) and
decided to apply a gum astringent that had been provided to me by a
dentist during a visit last year (Himalaya HiOra). This reduced the
pain somewhat. It also caused a lot of salivation. I also applied some
relaxation techniques. I was able to go back to sleep but it was not a
blissful sleep. I woke up around 6 AM.

I Googled a lot and thought the problem might be either TMD or tooth
chipping or gum injury. I doubt it was a cavity but couldn't inspect
myself because of the location.

## Friday, December 28 (2018-12-28)

I continued investigating the situation. I had trouble chewing so I
switched to more liquid foods, while also trying to avoid hot or cold
foods and dilute them with water to make them easier to eat.

I also booked a dentist appointment for Monday, December 31, at [Total
Health Dental Care](https://www.totalhealthdentalcare.com) with
Dr. Allison for 3 PM (only some doctors were available on Monday).

I applied gum astringent (Himalaya HiOra) two more times.

I went to sleep around 8:30.

After reading some advice on sleeping with toothaches, I slept with more
head elevation. While this reduced the tooth pains, it seems to have
made me more uncomfortable in other ways. I eventually went back to
sleeping the normal way.

I woke up a couple times briefly at night, then properly woke up
between 6:30 and 7.

## Saturday, December 29 (2018-12-29)

I gargled with salt water and continued to exercise some dietary
caution.

For lunch, I had lentil-rice (bisi bele bhat) along with salt lassi. I
asked for fewer spices, and also mixed some of the lassi into the
other food to make it less strenuous on the teeth. Otherwise, however,
it was a normal meal.

I went to sleep around 8:30.

I got up around 6:30, with a few night-time interruptions for
alerts. I was more well-rested than the past couple of days. A few
improvements that might have been causal: I wore my sweatshirt, which
kept me warmer and reduced my need to huddle or coil while sleeping
(which is normally not a problem, but in this case might have been
stressing my muscles). I maintained a better pillow arrangement.

Also, I didn't use gum astringent, but kept tissues handy so that when
I salivated at night I was able to catch it and not wet the pillows.

## Sunday, December 30 (2018-12-30)

During the day, the pain wasn't too distracting. I did some
acupressure exercise in the morning. I ate some takeout from Chaat
Cafe, but breaking the food down finer, and then in the evening I
cooked my usual food and ate a bit, again chopping things finer.

I went to sleep at around 8:30. I applied the gum astringent right
before going to sleep. I salivated a lot and used tissues to minimize
wetting of the pillows.

I was interrupted a lot at night by alerts, but otherwise the sleep
was tolerable, comparable with the previous day. I got up organically
around 6:30.

## Monday, December 31 (2018-12-31)

I had a bit of pain in the morning when eating and realized I was
opening my mouth too much, then after becoming cautious again things
were ok.

Had breakfast, cooked, ate lunch.

Dentist didnt' send email or phone call confirming appointment, and
their office didn't pick up at the phone number. So I decided not to
go since it seems the office is closed. Booked another appointment for
Friday for a location closer to home.

Went to sleep at around 8:30; did not apply gum astringent before
sleeping. No alerts overnight, woke up around 5:20. Good sleep
overall; continued issues of salivation overnight.

## Tuesday, January 1 (2019-01-01)

While having breakfast, I realized that though the lower left gum area
has mostly healed, I still have some swelling in my inner left cheek
(further out left). I applied the gum astringent to that area; I had
not previously applied the astringent there.

Also applied a bit of astringent to my upper right gums, where I
noticed a much more mild pain, possibly due to using the right side of
my teeth for all my eating activities.

I had two normal meals. In the evening, I was craving
lassi/butter-milk but didn't want to go out and get it. I used some
diluted yogurt with cumin powder for the effect. It's possible I put more
cumin than ideal.

Toward late evening, I felt a lot of throat irritation which may have
been due to the astringent or the cumin or just other factors; I
wasn't sure. In any case, I decided not to apply astringent at night.

I went to sleep around 8 PM. Sleep was relatively good. Got an alert
around 4:40 when I was also naturally semi-awake.

## Wednesday, January 2 (2019-01-02)

I have to go in to the office, so it's a tricky day.

I decided to take yogurt along so I could have diluted yogurt while in
the office, as a replacement for hot chocolate (that might be too hot
for my throat, and have more caffeine/sugar than I would like).

I ate breakfast at home at around 6:30, and left home around 7:45.

I ended up having the diluted yogurt throughout the day. Left the
office at around 5:15 but had a slow dinner on the way back. Reached
home at around 10 PM and immediately went to sleep.

Had some serious throat irritation for brief periods of time in the
evening.

## Thursday, January 3 (2019-01-03)

I woke up around 5:30 (semi-awake by around 4:45). Feeling better. Had
turmeric pills in the morning with breakfast.

Got into the office around 9 AM.

Had diluted yogurt again during the day while at the office.
