# Decision to start taking Omega-3 supplements

On Monday, December 30, 2019, I decided to start experimenting with
taking Omega-3 supplements. Specifically, I decided to start
experimenting with a vegan (algae-based) omega-3 (EPA/DHA)
supplement. I've ordered two bottles (120 pills) of the supplement
online from Amazon and expect to get it the week of January 7 to
January 10.

As of the time of this writing, I have not experimented with omega-3
supplements in the past. I have taken, and continue to regularly take,
supplements for B12, D3, and calcium.

## Background on omega-3 and my need for it

### omega-3: ALA, DHA, EPA

It is generally known that vegetarian diets are lacking in a group of
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) called omega-3 polyunsaturated
fatty acids (I'll just say "omega-3" from now on). The name "omega-3"
comes from the fact that the double bond closest to the methyl end of
the fatty acid molecule is at the third position.

Omega-3 cannot be synthesized by the human body from stuff other than
omega-3. The reason is that it's "difficult" for the human body to
attack a site so close to the methyl end and make a double bond there.

However, as explained below, some omega-3 can be converted to
other omega-3. There are three omega-3s of interest:

* Alpha-linoleic acid (ALA) is a short-chain omega-3 (it's a SC-PUFA);
  it has just 18 atoms in its carbon chain. It is also the only
  (unconditionally) essential omega-3 because it cannot be synthesized
  by the human body at all, even from other omega-3s. This is found in
  a number of plant-based foods such as spinach. Even though
  vegetarian diets can have ALA, the proportion of ALA in these diets
  would still be small; for instance, you'd need to be consuming
  spinach as your main daily vegetable to get enough ALA from spinach
  alone.

* Docosahexonic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) are
  long-chain omega-3s (they are LC-PUFAs): they have chains of more
  than 18 carbon atoms. Both DHA and EPA can be synthesized by the
  human body from ALA, and they are therefore not deemed
  essential. However, they may be conditionally essential; some
  people's bodies may have trouble converting ALA to DHA and
  EPA. These are food in sea-based algae and in fish that consume
  those algae. Vegetarian diets have very little DHA or EPA.

Speculative understanding: Although ALA is essential and DHA and EPA
aren't, it seems like there are benefits to consuming DHA and EPA
directly, rather than rely on getting them in enough quantities
through conversion from ALA. In fact, the "direct" usefulness of ALA
seems less than its usefulness as a raw material for the creation of
DHA and EPA, so if we can directly get the DHA and EPA, that seems
better (of course, it's still important to get good amounts of dietary
ALA, so I don't plan to cut down on the spinach). Since DHA and EPA
are not found in normal plant-based foods, supplements are therefore
necessary.

### The Omega-3 index test

There is a test called the [omega-3 index
test](https://omegaquant.com/what-is-the-omega-3-index/) that measures
DHA and EPA levels in the blood.

Interestingly, this test does not measure ALA in the blood, and only
measures DHA and EPA. I haven't dug into the details and reasons, but
this test seems to agree with my speculative understanding that DHA
and EPA are the ultimately important omega-3s, and ALA is useful
largely because it can be converted to those.

A small note here: the omega-3 index test is not a standard test and
has not been accepted by mainstream testing companies as of yet (for
instance, LabCorp doesn't seem to have this test). Think of it as a
test that's still in beta. It's available only from specialized
testing labs.

### Dietary ratio of omega-3 to omega-6

There is a common school of thought that the [dietary ratio of omega-3
and omega-6 consumption
matters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatty_acid_ratio_in_food). In
trying to understand this, I distilled a few ideas:

* It's quite likely that modern diets have lower than healthy
  consumption of omega-3s. Vegetarian diets in particular are likely
  to have low consumption of omega-3s, and in particular, low direct
  consumption of DHA and EPA.

* There are plausible mechanisms whereby, for a given amount of
  consumption of omega-3, consuming more omega-6 can be harmful
  because of competition between omega-3 and omega-6 for some pathways
  in the body.

* I wasn't able to get clarity on the thresholds at which more omega-6
  consumption starts hurting on net, or even a lot of clarity on how
  rigorously proven the negative effects of adding more omega-6 are,
  holding omega-3 consumption constant. For instance, it's not even
  clear if what matters is the ratio or the additive difference
  (excess of omega-6 consumption over omega-3).

* In light of all the uncertainty, I still think the following two
  tentative conclusions hold (which we can think of as a weaker form
  of the claim that the fatty acid ratio matters; it's sort of like
  hedging one's bets on the claim, so that one comes out ahead both if
  it's true and if it's not):

  * There is no need to go out of one's way to increase omega-6
    consumption, given the general levels of omega-6 in diet. At the
    same time, it doesn't seem wise to avoid healthy foods rich in
    omega-6 purely because of the high omega-6:omega-3 ratio (there
    are some other risks posed by omega-6 that may vary by individual;
    I'm just saying what I gather to be a good prior before beginning
    to incorporate bioindividuality).

  * When picking foods rich in omega-3, for the specific purpose of
    increasing omega-3 consumption, it's probably better to pick foods
    that have favorable omega-3 : omega-6 ratio, in addition to being
    rich in omega-3 in absolute terms. For instance, spinach has a
    good ratio of omega-3 to omega-6. On the other hand, soybean oil
    and canola oil have a decent amount of omega-3 but even more
    omega-6. We should not pick such foods if the goal is to increase
    omega-3 consumption. (There are other pros and cons of these oils;
    overall my take is that olive oil is the best cooking oil for
    normal stir-fry cooking. Olive oil also has more omega-6 than
    omega-3, but its amounts for both are small and it's mostly
    omega-9 MUFAs).

## Existing research on supplements

I'm not very confident that a supplement will help, and I'm also not
sure how to test the effectiveness of the supplement. I may ultimately
have to take the omega-3 index test, if it's available in my
geographical area after I have taken the supplement for a little
while.

The main high-quality study I'm aware of on omega-3 supplementation is
the Vitamin D-3 and Omega-3 Trial Study (VITAL). You can see the study
results [here](https://www.vitalstudy.org/findings.html). The study
finds that omega-3 supplementation doesn't seem to have an effect for
people who already consume fish regularly, but does seem to have a
positive effect in some ways for people who don't consume fish
regularly (and in particular, that would cover me). It also finds that
African Americans benefit from the supplement. The specific things the
study measures -- cardiovascular disease and cancer -- don't seem like
the sort of things that would directly or immediately affect me. So,
any positive findings of the study would be hard to directly apply to
my situation. Nonetheless, the fact that there are some positive
findings, and these findings are strongest for people who don't
consume fish, is moderate positive evidence of the value of
suppplementation.

## Supplement selection

### Why I want a vegan algae-based supplement

I looked for a vegan supplement for a few reasons:

* Ethics: I want to adhere as close to a vegan diet as possible. In
  this case, the alternative to a vegan supplement is a fish-based
  supplement. Since fish are smaller creatures, and are likely
  conscious, there's a high ratio of suffering/exploitation to amount
  of food produced.

* Dietary adaptability: As I'm not used to consuming fishy products, I
  might have trouble with the smell. Algae-based supplements have
  similar but less pronounced smell characteristics, as far as I can
  make out.

* Greater purity in expectation: Fish are more likely to have toxins
  like mercury. Oils made directly from fish are likely to have
  these. Vegan supplements from algae grown in controlled conditions
  are more likely to be pure.

* Correlates of more demanding consumers: Consumers who want vegan
  products are likely to be more demanding in terms of quality in
  other respects.

Unfortunately, the most extensive research on omega-3 supplements is
based on fish oils and not vegan supplements. So, I have to take it on
faith that the research generalizes.

Brian Tomasik, who is similarly concerned both with personal health
and reducing suffering, also takes plant-based omega-3 supplements, as
described
[here](https://briantomasik.com/some-health-rules-i-follow/#Omega_3_capsules)
(the specific supplement link he provides doesn't work any more).

### Supplements I considered

I considered vegan supplements from a few different sources,
including:

* [Freshfield](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07H9GL3Y8/)
* [Nested Naturals](https://www.amazon.com/VEGAN-OMEGA-Supplement-Cardiovascular-Supplements/dp/B01MYE95BQ/)

I ultimately chose Freshfield because it was slightly cheaper, and
also because the total amount per capsule was higher than the other
supplements. The ratings were also quite good, and the reviews were
generally positive.

I ordered two bottles (120 capsules) for delivery next week, with a
delivery time range of January 7 to January 10, 2020.

## Update on starting and continuing supplements

I received the supplements in the mail on Wednesday, January 8, 2020,
and started taking them daily starting Friday, January 10, 2020. In
the first few days, I didn't experience any obvious reaction (positive
or negative) to the supplements.

I finished the first bottle of 60 capsules around Friday, March 13,
2020 and started on the second bottle.

On Saturday, April 4, 2020, I ordered four more bottles (while partly
through the second bottle). By this point, I had a generally positive
impression of the supplement, although it's hard to get any kind of
conclusive evidence since I didn't really run a controlled
experiment. The rationale behind the bulk order was to reduce the
number of shipments, and also stock up in preparation of supply chain
disruption due to coronavirus.
