# Activity tracker listing times and places I was outside the house

This will be useful in case either I come down with coronavirus, or
somebody in my vicinity does and my activity needs to be tracked.

I exclude trips for jogging and running during which I did not come in
proximity to anybody.

## Monday March 23

* Around 12:30 to 1:30: I went to Walgreens and purchased toilet paper
  and paper towels (two rolls each). The cashier there was the regular
  person and I can recognize his picture. I paid by card.

* Around 5:30 to 7: I went to Trader Joe's and purchased a number of
  groceries. I had to wait in line to enter the store, maintaining six
  feet distance. After purchasing, I went to withdraw cash from the
  Citibank ATM.

## Wednesday March 25

* Around 1 PM: I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and ordered yellow curry
  tofu to go. I paid by cash. The server was one of the regular
  people and I can recognize her.

See also https://github.com/vipulnaik/daily-updates/issues/136

## Thursday March 26

* Around 4 to 5 PM: I went to Trader Joe's and bought some
  groceries. I had to wait in line to enter the store, maintaining six
  feet distance. I paid by card.

See also https://github.com/vipulnaik/daily-updates/issues/138

## Saturday March 28

* Around 1:57 PM: I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and ordered yellow
  curry tofu to go. I waited in the restaurant (server wasn't near me
  while I waited) and got the food arond 2:05 PM. The server was the
  same one whom I saw on Wednesday March 25. There were also other
  patrons who picked up orders but I did not get close to them. The
  walk to the restarant is around five minutes each way, so I was
  outside the home from arouund 1:50 PM to 2:10 PM.

* Around 6:14 PM: I bought some food from Trader Joe's. The cashier
  was a young black female whom I haven't seen before. I arrived and
  started waiting in line at 5:50 PM, got into the store around 6:10
  PM, and left the store around 6:15 PM. I was outside the home from
  around 5:30 PM to around 6:35 PM. While waiting in line, the person
  in front of me was a young male wearing a black jacket; the person
  behind me was an old man with a mustache and an umbrella.

## Tuesday March 31

* Around 6:55 to 7:10 PM: I was at Bangkok Thai Cuisine getting yellow
  curry tofu. A waiter took my order and a waitress gave it to me at
  the door. Both wore masks and I recognize them. There were some
  other customers.

## Wednesday April 1

* Around 3:05 PM: I left my home to go to the bank and to buy
  groceries.

* Around 3:26 PM: I deposited a check at Citibank in downtown
  Berkeley. I was in the bank around 3:23 to 3:28 PM.

* Around 3:35 PM: I got in line to buy groceries at Trader Joe's. The
  person in front of me was an old white man; the person behind me was
  a black man reading a book, around my age.

* Around 4 PM: I was let in to Trader Joe's

* 4:13 PM: I finished purchasing groceries. The cashier's name was
  Cynthia. I paid by card.

See also https://github.com/vipulnaik/daily-updates/issues/142

## Saturday April 4

* Around 7:48 PM: I ordered yellow curry with tofu and white rice from
  Bangkok Thai Cuisine. The waitress was the usual one. I paid by
  cash. The food was prepared in about ten minutes.

## Monday April 6

* Around 8:40 AM to 9:35 AM: I went to Trader Joe's. I got to the line
  at around 8:55 AM, got into the store around 9:12 AM, and finished
  checkout at around 9:20 AM. I returned home around 9:35 AM. I paid
  by card. I don't remember the face or identity of the checkout
  person.

## Tuesday April 7

* Somewhere in the 12:45 to 1:30 range: I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine
  to order yellow curry tofu with rice takeout. I paid by cash. It was
  the usual waitress. They had a glass or plastic screen in front of
  the counter for some protection.

## Wednesday April 8

* 8:25 AM to 9:30 AM: Around 8:25 AM, I left to go to Trader Joe's to
  buy groceries. I arrived there around 8:45 AM and stood in line. I
  entered the store around 9:05 AM. I finished the purchase at 9:12 AM
  and the male cashier insisted on putting my stuff in their brown
  paper bags rather than letting me put it in my backpack. I returned
  home around 9:30 AM.

## Friday April 10

* 12:08 PM to 12:30 PM: Around 12:10 PM, I left home to go to Bangkok
  Thai Cuisine. Around 12:15 PM, I placed the order for yellow curry
  with tofu. I paid by cash. The waitress was the usual one. I received
  the food at 12:22 and got back home at 12:30.

## Sunday April 12

* 9:01 AM to 9:13 AM: During this period, I was in the Walgreens
  store. I bought a flask and face tissues. I checked out using my
  phone number and debit card; the sales clerk was female and somebody
  I had not seen before. The transaction happened at 9:11 AM.

* Somewhere betwee 8:30 PM and 9 PM: I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine
  and ordered yellow curry tofu with rice to go. I paid by cash. The
  waiter was one of the usual male ones. There were two other
  customers in the restaurant sitting together and waiting for their
  order; they had masksk on. I maintained distance of 12 feet or more
  from them at all times.

## Monday April 13

* 8:40 AM to about 10 AM: During this period, I was out buying
  groceries from Trader Joe's. I arrived at the store and got in the
  line somewhere between 8:50 AM and 8:55 AM. I got into the store a
  little after 9:15 AM. I checked out and paid by debit card at 9:31
  AM. The clerk was a young black male with a beard. I walked back
  home (a little slowly because I had bought a lot and it was all in
  paper bags, because the store doesn't allow self-bagging any
  more). I got home around 9:55 AM.

## Wednesday April 15

* 1:10 PM to 1:40 PM: During this period, I went to Bangkok Thai
  Cuisine and ordered a yellow curry with tofu. I paid by cash. The
  waitress was the usual one. I placed the order around 1:20 PM and
  left a little after 1:30 PM.

## Friday April 17

* 9:25 AM to 10:35 AM: During this period, I went to Trader Joe's to
  get groceries. I arrived at the store at around 9:40 AM, got inside
  the store at around 10:05 AM, and finished paying at 10:15 AM. I got
  back home around 10:35 AM. I used the checkout aisle farthest from
  the street entrance; the cashier was male.

* 6:40 to 7:05 PM: During the period, I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine
  and ordered a yellow curry with tofu. I paid by cash. The waiter was
  one of the usual male ones.

## Saturday April 18

* 9:50 AM to 10 AM: During this period, I was in the Walgreens on
  Gilman Street. The cashier was the usual male one. I bought a number
  of items including toothpaste, chewable vitamin C, and some toiletry
  items. I checked out and paid with debit card at 9:59 AM.

## Monday April 20

* 5:20 PM to 5:55 PM: During this period, I went out to get a yellow
  curry tofu with rice from Bangkok Thai Cuisine. I placed the order
  around 5:30, waited outside and inside the restaurant, and received
  the order at 5:45. I paid by cash. The waiter was the usual male
  one.

## Thursday April 23

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a cloth mask (part of a
pack purchased from Custom Ink) for the entire duration that I was in
the downtown region.
 
* 6 PM to 6:09 PM: I did some shopping at Trader Joe's. There was no
  line when I entered the store at 6 PM. I checked out at 6:08 PM, the
  cashier was male and it was the checkout counter farthest from the
  door.

* Around 6:11 to 6:13 PM: I ordered a spinach masala dosa takeout from
  Udupi Palace.

* 6:20 PM: I withdrew $200 USD from my checking account at the
  Citibank ATM at Shattuck and University.

* 6:27 PM: I picked up my order from Udupi Palace.

## Saturday April 25

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a cloth mask (part of a
pack purchased from Custom Ink) for the entire duration that I was in
the downtown region as well as for the return trip.

* Around 8:55 AM to 9:15 AM: I walked to the Trader Joe's.

* Around 9:15 to 9:25 AM: I was in the line outside Trader Joe',
  waiting to get in.

* 9:25 AM to 9:40 AM: I shopped at Trader Joe's. I checked out and
  paid by card at 9:37 AM. The cashier was one of the veteran female
  employees.

* Around 9:40 AM to 10 AM: I walked back home with the stuff purchased
  from Trader Joe's.

## Sunday April 26

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a cloth mask (part of a
pack purchased from Custom Ink) for the entire duration that I was in
the downtown region.

* Around 3 PM: I placed the order for spinach masala dosa at Udupi Palace.

* Around 3:07 PM: I made a cash withdrawal of $200 USD from the
  Citibank ATM at Shattuck and University.

* Around 3:14 PM: I picked up my order from Udupi Palace.

## Monday April 27

Between 5:35 PM and 5:55 PM, I was out of the house. During this time,
I made a trip to Bangkok Thai Cuisine. I ordered yellow curry tofu
with rice, and paid by cash. The waiter was the usual male one.

## Wednesday April 29

Between 10:45 AM and noon, I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore
my cloth mask for the entire duration I was in the downtown Berkeley
region, which was around 11 AM to 11:45 AM.

* 11:13 AM: I entered the Citibank at Shattuck and University.

* 11:16 AM: My teller deposit transiaction at Citibank was completed.

* 11:18 AM: I exited the bank.

* 11:23 AM: I arrived at Trader Joe's and got in line.

* 11:26 AM: I entered the store.

* 11:33 AM: I completed the transaction; the aisle was the one
  farthest from the street entrance. The clerk was male.

* 11:36 AM: I placed an order for spinach masala dosa at Udupi Palace
  and paid by cash. I waited in the restaurant for my order.

* 11:41 AM: My order was ready; I retrieved it and exited the
  restaurant.

* Noon: I returned home.

## Friday May 1

Between around 1:15 AM and 1:40 AM, I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and
got yellow curry tofu with rice. I wore a cloth mask for the whole
duration. I was in the restaurant from around 1:20 PM to 1:35 PM. The
waitress who took my order was the usual female one. I paid by cash. I
was using my phone in the restaurant sending text messages while
waiting for my order.

## Saturday May 2

Between around 1 PM and 2:15 PM, I went to downtown Berkeley for some
shopping. I wore a mask throutht the duration I was in downtown
Berkeley.

* Around 1:20 PM: I got in line at Trader Joe's.

* Around 1:25 PM: I entered Trader Joe's.

* Around 1:33 PM: I checked out from the second last counter from the
  door. The clerk was female.

* Around 1:38 PM: I placed an order for a spinach masala dosa at Udupi
  Palace.

* Around 1:48 PM: I finished purchasing stamps from the USPS office.

* Around 1:58 PM: I picked up my order from Udupi Palace.

* Around 2:15 PM: I was back home.

## Monday May 4

Between around 1:15 PM and 1:40 PM, I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine to
order yellow curry tofu with rice. The waiter was the usual male
one. I paid by cash. I was in the restaurant from around 1:25 PM to
around 1:35 PM. I wore my cloth mask while in the restaurant and on
the way back.

## Wednesday May 6

Between around 3:30 PM and around 4:30 PM, I was in downtown Berkeley
buying groceries from Trader Joe's and getting takeout from Udupi
Palace.

* Around 3:50 PM: I got into the line outside Trader Joe's.

* 3:56 PM: I entered Trader Joe's.

* 4:01 PM: I finished checking out. The cashier's name was Amaya.

* 4:04 PM: I ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace.

* 4:10 PM: The order was ready and I left.

* 4:13 PM: I exited the downtown Berkeley area and removed my mask.

## Saturday Moy 9

### Target trip

Between around 2:55 PM and 3:32 PM, I made a trip to the Target at
1414 University Avenue to purchase some toiletries.

* Around 3:01 PM: I got in the line at Target.

* Around 3:11 PM: I entered the store.

* 3:22 PM: I finished checking out using the self-checkout.

* Around 3:24 PM: I exited the store.

* Around 3:32 PM: I returned home.

### Downtown Berkeley trip

Between around 5 PM and around 6:30 PM, I went to downtown Berkeley
for grocery shopping and getting takeout food. I wore a mask while in
downtown Berkely and also on the way back.

* Around 5:20 PM: I joined the line at Trader Joe's.

* Around 5:35 PM: I entered the store.

* Around 5:49 PM: I finished paying for the stuff.

* Around 5:52 PM: I ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace.

* Around 6 PM: I got my order and left Udupi Palace.

## Monday May 11

Some time in the afternoon, I believe around 1 PM to 1:30 PM, I went
to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and ordered yellow curry tofu with rice to
go. I paid by cash.

## Wednesday May 13

I left home at around 3:30 PM to go to downtown Berkeley. I wore a
cloth mask while I was in downtown Berkeley.

* Around 3:48 PM: I entered Trader Joe's after waiting in line for a
  few minutes (I used the line in the parking lot).

* 3:53 PM: I finished checkout. The checkout clerk was Jimmmy and the
  aisle was the one farthest from the street entrance.

* 3:56 PM to 4:06 PM: I ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace,
  paid by cash, then waited for my order in the restaurant. I picked
  up the order after 10 minutes.

## Friday May 15

I ordered a yellow curry tofu (no rice, no bag) at Bangkok Thai
Cuisine and paid by cash. The waitress was the usual female one. I
left homee around 1:09, placed the order around 1:13, and left with
the food around 1:20. I returned home around 1:25.

## Sunday May 17

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley.

* Around 1:25 PM: I entered Trader Joe's. There was no line.

* Around 1:34 PM: I checked out. The clerk was Luciano.

* Around 1:37 PM: I went to Udupi Palace to order spinach masala dosa.

* Around 1:45 PM: I exited the restaurant with my order.

## Tuesday May 19

Between 1 PM and 1:30 PM, I made a trip to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and
ordered yellow curry with tofu. I paid with cash. The waitress was the
usual female one.

I coughed a little bit while waiting but nobody else was near me at
the time.

## Thursday May 21

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while I was in the
downtown region.

* Around 1:35 PM: I left my home.

* Around 1:50 PM: I entered Trader Joe's.

* 1:59 PM: I checked out from the counter closest to the door. The checkout clerk was Nicole.

* Around 2:02 PM: I ordered a spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace.

* 2:08 PM: I entered the Citibank at Shattuck and University.

* 2:10 PM: I finished my check deposit.

* Around 2:17 PM: I picked up my order from Udupi Palace and paid by cash.

* Around 2:35 PM: I was back home.

## Saturday May 23

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while I was in the
downtown region.

* Around 12:50 PM: I left my home.

* 1:07 PM: I got in line at Trader Joe's.

* 1:23 PM: I entered the Trader Joe's.

* 1:27 PM: I finished checking out. The checkout clerk was Edgardo.

* Around 1:30 PM: I placed an order for spinach masala dosa at Udupi Palace.

* Around 1:35 PM: I received my order and left the restaurant.

## Monday May 25

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while I was in the
downtown region.

* Around 3:38 PM: I entered Trader Joe's. I used the entrance from the
  garage, that happened to not have a line.

* 3:47 PM: I finished checking out. The store clerk's name was Rita.

* 3:50 PM: I placed an order for spinach masala dosa at Udupi Palace.

* 3:55 PM: I picked up my order and paid by cash.

## Wednesday May 27

Some time in the evening, I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and got a
yellow curry tofu for takeout. The waitress was the usual female one.

## Saturday May 30

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while in the
downtown region.

* Around noon: I set out from home.

* Around 12:20 PM: I got in line at Trader Joe's (garage entrance).

* Around 12:22 PM: I entered the store.

* 12:30 PM: I finished checkout. The cashier was John.

* 12:33 PM: I placed an order for spinach masala dosa at Udupi Palace.

* 12:36 PM: I received my order and left the restaurant.

* Around 12:55 PM: I was back home.

## Monday June 1

I ordered yellow curry tofu for takeout in the evening (no rice, paid
by card). I was in the restaurant around 6:35 to 7 PM. There were a
lot of people doing takeout, possibly due to early closure of the
restaurant due to curfew imposed as a result of George Floyd
protests. Both the male waiter and the female waitress were present.

## Wednesday June 3

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while in the
downtown region.

* 1:55 PM: I entered the Citibank branch at Shattuck and University.

* 1:57 PM: I finished depositing a check.

* 2:07 PM: Around this time, I got in line at Trader Joe's.

* 2:27 PM: Around this time, I entered the Trader Joe's.

* 2:37 PM: I checked out. The cashier was Joel.

* 2:41 PM: I placed a takeout order for spinach masala dosa at Udupi
  Palace and paid by cash.

* 2:45 PM: I left Udupi Palace with my order.

## Saturday June 6

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while in the
downtown region.

* 3:42 PM: I got in the line at Trader Joe's.

* Around 3:49 PM: I entered Trader Joe's.

* 3:56 PM: I finished checking out. The clerk was Duane.

* Around 4 PM: I ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace.

* Around 4:05 PM: I picked up my order and left Udupi Palace.

## Wednesday June 10

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while in the
downtown region and for most of the journey.

* 12:40 PM or so: I got into Trader Joe's. There was no line.

* 12:54 PM: I checked out. The cashier was Malia.

* 12:56 PM: I ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace.

* 1:03 PM or so: I left the restaurant with my order.

* 1:20 PM: I returned home.

## Friday June 12

I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I wore a mask while in the
downtown region and for most of the journey.

* Around 3:05 PM: I entered the downtown region.

* Around 3:10 PM: I entered the Citibank at Shattuck and University.

* 3:21 PM: I finished depositing a check at Citibank.

* Around 3:26 PM: I ordered spinach masala dosa.

* Around 3:35 PM: I picked up my order and left.

* Around 3:55 PM: I returned home.

## Saturday June 13

In the early afternoon (around 2 PM) I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine
and ordered a yellow curry tofu.

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley to buy groceries. I got in
the line a little after 5:30 PM, got in the store around 5:50 PM, and
checked out at 6 PM. The clerek was Crystal.

## Wednesday June 17

I went to downtown Berkeley, with the intention of shopping at Trader
Joe's. I arrived in the downtown area around 5:10 PM. The line at
Trader Joe's was too long, so I instead simply went to Udupi Palace
and ordered a spinach masala dosa there. I left the restaurant around
5:16 PM.

I wore a mask fully covering my nose and mouth while in the downtown
region, and covering only my mouth for most of the journey.

## Thursday June 18

Between 7:30 PM and 8 PM, I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and ordered a
yellow curry with tofu. The waitress was a different female one from
the usual.

## Friday June 19

### Morning visit to Walgreens

Shortly after 10 AM, I entered the Walgreens on Gilman Street. I
checked out and paid by card at 10:11 AM.

### Evening visit to downtown Berkeley

Between around 4 PM and around 5 PM, I made a trip to downtown
Berkeley. I got in line at the parking lot at Trader Joe's around 4:20
PM, entered soon after, and checked out at 4:34 PM with cashier
Myron. I then ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace at around
4:37 PM and left around 4:50 PM.

## Saturday June 20

### Morning visit to Walgreens

Around 9:05 AM, I entered the Walgreens on Gilam Street. I checked out
and paid by card at 9:12 AM.

### Afternoon visit to downtown Berkeley

In the late afternoon, I visited Trader Joe's. I joined the line
outside the store at a little before 3:50 PM. I entered the store
around 3:52 PM, and checked out at 3:59 PM. The clerk was Nick.

## Sunday June 21

### Evening visit to Walgreens

Between 6 PM and 7 PM, I went to the Walgreens at Gilman Street and
purchased toilet paper and paper towels. I paid by card.

## Wednesday June 24

Between 3:30 PM and 5 PM, I visited downtown Berkeley. I was in the
line at Trader Joe's starting a little before 4 PM, entered at around
4:07 PM, and checked out with cashier Drew at 4:18 PM. I then ordered
spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace and left around 4:40 PM.

## Saturday June 27

Between around 5 PM and around 6:30 PM, I visited downtown Berkeley. I
first went to Trader Joe's, and finished purchasing stuff there at
5:37 PM with cashier Scott. I then ordered spinach masala dosa from
Udupi Palace, waited over 10 minutes, and left after paying by cash.

## Monday June 29

In the afternoon (a little after 1 PM) I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine
and ordered yellow curry with tofu. I waited around 5 minutes, then
picked up my order.

## Wednesday July 1

Between around 5 PM and a little after 6 PM, I went to downtown
Berkeley. I first went to Trader Joe's, where I checked out at 5:38 PM
with cashier Baylee. I then went to Udupi Palace, where I ordered
spinach masala dosa and paid by cash.

## Friday July 3

In the evening (between 4 PM and 5 PM) I went to downtown Berkeley and
ordered spinach masala dosa from Udupi Palace. I considered going to
Trader Joe's but was dissuaded by the long line there.
