# 2021-08-11 dental cleaning trip

This is an attempt to describe, from recollection, the events of the
dental cleaning trip on 2021-08-11. General context is in the [2021
activity tracker](2021-activity-tracker.md#wednesday-august-11).

## Process

### Mouthwash

The dental hygienist first asked me to rinse with mouthwash.

### Initial examination

The dental hygienist first did an examination of my teeth. Dr. Jessica
did a quick review as well and concurred with the recommendations.

### Cleaning

The cleaning process took about 20 to 30 minutes. It included the use
of the plaque scraper on the middle of the lower back teeth, but
mostly it just involved the use of a scaler and air blower.

### Polishing

At the end, the hygienist polished my teeth with something that tasted
like mint.

### Flossing

The hygienist also did one round of flossing of my teeth. Whereas I
use an interdental brush, she used a flossing string and it was much
more painful. She recommended daily flossing and also said that the
pain will go away after two weeks of regular flossing.

## Comments by dental staff

### Recommendations

The initial examination reiterated findings from the [2019 dentist
visit](2019-01-08-dentist-visit.md), namely that my lower back gums
had developed pockets. From what I could gather, the situation wasn't
worse than it had been back then (which isn't surprising -- that visit
was triggered by toothache) so it's unclear if there was any
deterioration or it's just a result of not having dealt with the
problem back then.

The recommendations were for a Phase I of deep cleaning, and a Phase
II of PANO/nitrous wisdom tooth removal.

### Tongue and saliva

The hygienist commented that I have a "curious tongue" that followed
the dental cleaning instruments along -- this echoed comments made in
my previous dentist visit that said I have an overactive tongue. She
also said I have a lot of saliva production, which creates some
challenges, and makes it more important for me to brush and floss
regularly.

### Post-cleaning precautions?

I asked the hygienist if I should take any precautions for the next
few days now that the cleaning is over; she said that nothing should
be necessary and just regular dental hygiene should be followed. She
said that precautions may be necessary after the deep cleaning.

## Explanation by reception staff

After the cleaning, the staff at the reception walked me through
treatment cost. I had paid $230 out of pocket for the cleaning. The
two new treatments proposed were:

* Phase I: Full mouth periodontal therapy with 6 week eval / heal
  rinse: The baseline cost was $1,830 with a 20% discount for
  membership and a further 5% discount for prepayment. Since an annual
  membership costs just $360, a membership would "pay for itself" if I
  decideed to do this.

* Phase II: PANO/nitrous wisdom tooth extraction: The baseline cost
  was $2,200 wit a 20% discount for membership and a further 5%
  discount for prepayment. Since an annual membership costs just $360,
  a membership would "pay for itself" if I decideed to do this. The
  cost per tooth would be about $550 ($410 for the extraction, $140
  for the nitrous treatment).

The receptionist informed me that if I signed up for the membership
within the next hour, my already-done cleaning cost would be covered
as a "free cleaning"; so, instead of paying the full $360 I only had
to pay the difference ($360 - $230 = $130). This would also entitle me
to another free dental cleaning within the next year, so even if I
decided not to go for the periodontal therapy, it may still be worth
it.

Further details about Phase I periodontal therapy:

* It would include three appointments, one each for each side of the
  mouth, and one for a followup evaluation (6 weeks after the latter
  side).

* No specific gap was required between the appointments for the two
  sides, but a good reason to not do them too close is fatigue/pain in
  that side of the mouth. If I did both too close together, I might
  have trouble eating.

* They were currently seeing long wait times for appointments due to a
  post-COVID backlog of dental appointments, and were booked for
  August. Current wait times for appointments were about a month;
  however, this was expected to go down in steady state. I didn't get
  specifics but my guess is that in general there would be a lag of
  2-3 weeks for booking an appointment.
