This document describes my experience after receiving dose 2 of the
Pfizer COVID vaccine on Friday, June 25, 2021.

For more general background on my outside-the-home activities in that
time period, see my [2021 activity
tracker](2021-activity-tracker.md). Note that the actual trip details
ar found in both files; but the current file has more details on the
aftereffects.

## Temperature readings

Time (may be approximate) | Context | Reading in degrees Fahrenheit
-- | -- | --
2021-06-25 4:00 PM | Before heading out for my COVID shot | 98.3
2021-06-25 6:15 PM | After returning from my COVID shot | 98.6
2021-06-26 11:10 AM | Feeling hot so I decided to measure | 99.4
2021-06-26 11:54 AM | Periodic check to see if I'm still hot | 100.0
2021-06-26 12:30 PM | Check after clearing my bowels | 99.3
2021-06-26 1:52 PM | Periodic check to see if I'm still hot | 99.5
2021-06-26 3:25 PM | Periodic check to see if I'm still hot | 99.5
2021-06-26 4:29 PM | Periodic check to see if I'm still hot | 99.1
2021-06-26 6:12 PM | Periodic check to see if I'm still hot | 100.8, 101.9, 101.8, 101.3

## Friday June 25

In the evening I went to get my COVID shot. My temperature before
leaving (taken around 4 PM) was 98.3 degrees Fahrenheit.

I left my home around 4:05 PM and arrived at the North Berkeley BART
at around 4:13 PM. I took the BART train at around 4:25 PM and arrived
at MacArthur around 4:35 PM. I then walked to the Safeway Pharmacy at
3889 San Pablo Avenue, arriving there at around 4:52 PM. I submitted
my paperwork at 5 PM and then got my Pfizer second dose COVID vaccine
at 5:05 PM.

The dose felt very quick and the prick felt very light to me compared
to flu shots I've had. I asked the pharmacist, Maggie, who said it
depends on the pharmacist's skill (ouch). But she also mentioned that
the dose volume for the Pfizer COVID shot is smaller than for flu
shots.

I waited in the pharmacy till about 5:20 PM (15-minute observation
period). I felt fine, so I left. I took the BART back and arrived at
North Berkeley BART at around 6 PM, and got home a few minutes later.

I wore a new KN95 mask while in BART and while in Safeway, but not for
the entire journey walking back and forth.

My temperature upon my return was 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit.

I felt perfectly fine but started getting sleepy a little earlier,
which may be related to the vaccine or may be because I slept late the
previous night; in any case I went to sleep around 9 PM. I had a
slight soreness in my arm while sleeping, which actually made me
relieved as I was worried that I hadn't even gotten injected!

## Saturday June 26

I felt fine in the morning; very slight soreness continued and a
general slight physical fatigue and small aches (the kind you get
after extensive exercise). My temperature was 98.8 degrees
Fahrenheit. I decided I will not run too much this morning, because
even though I'm feeling fine so far I might need to direct more of my
energy to fighting the pseudovirus.

I had only a partial bowel movement in the morning. While it's not
clear that this was caused by the vaccine, it is rare enough (happens
less than once a month) that I think the vaccine may have played a
role. Rough theory: my body diverted resources from food processing to
fighting the pseudovirus.

When I actually went to run, I did in fact run a little bit but at the
lower end of usual; I walked around as much as usual though.

At 11:10 AM I took my temperature again and noticed that it had
increased to 99.4 degrees Fahrenheit, which is trending toward a
fever. The temperature roughly matches my subjective state; I have a
perception of being somewhat hotter than usual, but not to the point
where it's causing me discomfort.

At 11:54 AM I took another reading and got 100.0 degrees Fahrenheit. I
was not feeling subjectively worse than at the time of my previous
reading (in fact, if anything, I was feeling a bit better).

A little before 12:30 PM I cleared my bowels a second time, this time
reaching a feeling of completeness. After finishing, I took another
temperature reading at around 12:30 PM; it came to 99.3 degrees
Fahrenheit.

I took another reading at 1:52 PM and got 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit; I
wasn't feeling meaningfully different since my previous reading.

A further reading at 3:25 PM came to 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit and
another reading at 4:29 PM came to 99.1 degrees Fahrenheit.

At 6:12 PM I took a reading four times. I got values of 100.8, 101.9,
101.8, and 101.3 degrees Fahrenheit, even though I actually felt
better than I had felt in the morning when I first started feeling
hot.
