# Shallow nutrient review

After entering my approximate food purchases over the past month, I
did a shallow review of my total nutrient consumption over the past
month, to get an overall sense for how off-base my consumption is.

## Caveats affecting analysis

* I do not have nutritional information for restaurant food I had,
  which accounts for about 15-20% of my food consumption. So, my
  consumption estimates for nutrients are correspondingly lower than
  they should be.

* I have recorded only food purchases, not food consumption. Since
  it's only a month-long period, this affects some purchases that
  happen in bulk, such as sauerkraut and olive oil.

* Some of the purchases are reconstructed from memory as we don't
  have receipts, so they may be inaccurate.

* For many foods, we don't have information on the "less important"
  nutrients such the Vitamins B, E, and K, or magnesium, phosphorus,
  zinc, or copper.

## Observed potential nutritional issues

### Sodium/potassium imbalance

My estimated sodium consumption is already above the RDA, and my
potassium consumption seems to be at about half of the RDA. Most of
the high sodium consumption is driven by the added salts in veg
biryani, misal curry, and whole wheat wraps -- not in foods I prepare
myself.

My potassium consumption (relative to sodium consumption) is boosted
heavily by consumption of spinach and eggplant. Biryani, whole wheat
wraps, and misal curry contribute to both sodium and
potassium. Beefsteak tomato and sauerkraut are high in sodium and
don't have potassium, though sauerkraut is the big culprit here.

I expect that accounting for non-home food will boost potassium and
sodium both (the food is salted, but also includes a lot of spinach,
which is strong on potassium).

This isn't concerning enough, but I do hope to come back and examine
this a bit more.

### Carbohydrate/fat imbalance

My calorie consumption seems to be a little more towards fats of all
kinds (saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated) and less
towards carbohydrates. My dietary fiber is more than enough, sugars
are low, and other complex carbohydrates also seem a bit lower than
expected.

I'm not too worried about this because my carbohydrate consumption
isn't too low, and in general the newer thinking tends to be in the
direction of not favoring carbohydrates. Recommended dietary
allowances are probably a little behind this newer thinking.

### Vitamin D and B12: quite low in diet, supplements needed

My dietary Vitamin B12 consumption is probably close to zero, but I
think my supplement is probably covering it well.

For Vitamin D, dietary Vitamin D is limited to almond milk. The almond
milk consumption gets me to around 50% of RDA, but my supplement
should get me well past that.

### Vitamin A and iron: a little lower

For Vitamin A and iron, I am at ~70% of where I need to be, but I
expect that incorporating the non-home food consumption will get me
closer to where I need to be.

### Vitamin C: well above RDA

My consumption of Vitamin C seems to be well above RDA, probably at
almost double. This suggests that I should probably avoid high-dose
Vitamin C except in contexts where I have strong suspicion of cold,
COVID, or flu risk.

### Unknowns: Vitamin B, E, K, minerals

Since nutrition facts for most foods don't include data on Vitamins B,
E, K, and other minerals (magnesium, phosphorus, zinc, copper). I will
need to put in more effort to construct a picture of my state of
consumption of these.