# Activity tracker listing times and places I was outside the house

This will be useful in case either I come down with coronavirus, or
somebody in my vicinity does and my activity needs to be tracked.

I exclude trips for jogging and running during which I did not come in
proximity to anybody.

I am making one more change from 2020: I'm also listing nontrivial
contact with people inside my household.

## Sunday January 3

I went for picking up takeout from Mehak Indian Cuisine. For most of
the journey both ways, I was talking on the phone. I was not close to
any humans during the journey, and I lowered my mask for much of the
trip (except when close to people).

My interaction at the restaurant was minimal (just a few words, less
than a minute) and masked.

## Thursday January 7

I went to downtown Berkeley. My first stop was the post office, where
I spent around 20 minutes printing postage and mailiing forms. This
was roughly 4:35 PM to 4:55 PM.

I then went to the Walgreens at downtown Berkeley and bought a few
items. I finished checkout at 5:07 PM.

I then went to Trader Joe's to buy groceries. I finished checkout at
5:28 PM.

I finally went to Udupi Palace to order a spinach masala dosa. It was
a fairly long wait, and there were other people waiting in the area as
well. I was indoors for about 10 to 15 minutes with others (not very
close to me, all masked). I did the rest of my waiting outdoors. I
finally left the restaurant with my order at around 6:25 PM.

## Sunday January 10

### Morning trip to Walgreens

In the morning, I went to the Walgreens at Gilman Street to buy
toiletries. I finished checkout at 8:37 AM.

### Evening trip to downtown Berkeley

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to Trader
Joes' and did grocery shopping. I finished checkout at 4:50 PM. I then
went to Udupi Palace and got a spinach masala dosa.

## Wednesday January 13

I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and ordered a yellow curry with tofu. I
paid by cash.

## Saturday January 16

I went to downtown Berkeley. I began by doing some shopping at Trader
Joe's. I finished checkout at 2:25 PM. I then went to Udupi Palace and
got a spinach masala dosa.

## Tuesday January 19

In the evening (between around 5:30 PM and 6:30 PM) I went to Mehak
Indian Cuisine to pick up an online order.

## Monday January 25

In the evening (between 5:30 PM and 6:45 PM) I went to downtown
Berkeley. I first went to Trader Joe's, from where I checked out at
6:06 PM. I then went to Udupi Palace where I got a spinach masala dosa.

This was my first time wearing a KN95 mask.

## Thursday January 28

In the evening, betweeen 5:30 PM and 6 PM, I went to Bangkok Thai
Cuisine and ordered a yellow curry with tofu. I wore a cloth face
mask.

## Sunday January 31

In the evening, between around 4 PM and around 5:40 PM, I went to
downtown Berkeley. I first went to the Walgreens on Shattuck Avenue
for some toiletries. I checked out at 4:43 PM. After that, I went to
Trader Joe's and checked out at 5:07 PM. I then went to Udupi Palace
and ordered a spinach masala dosa; I left around 5:20 PM. I was back
home a little before 5:40 PM.

## Tuesday February 2

In the evening, between 5:15 PM and 6:15 PM, I went to Mehak Indian
Cuisine to pick up an online order. I wore a cloth face mask and had
minimal human interaction in the journey and during pickup.

## Saturday February 6

### Morning trip to Walgreens

In the morning, I went to Walgreens to buy toiletries. I checked out
at 9:07 AM. I wore a (new) KN95 mask while in the store. As part of
the checkout process, I switched to getting digital receipts.

### Afternoon trip to downtown Berkeley

In the afternoon, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to Trader
Joe's where I bought groceries. My time of checkout was 3:43 PM. After
that, I went to Udupi Palace and got a spinach masala dosa. I wore a
KN-95 mask for the trip.

## Wednesday February 10

In the evening, around 6:05 PM, I left my home to go to Bangkok Thai
Cuisine. There, I ordered a yellow curry with tofu. I wore a KN-95
mask (my last wear of the mask that I started wearing Saturday) and
spent most of my waiting time outside the restaurant.

## Saturday February 13

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first bought groceries
from Trader Joe's. Then, I went to Udupi Palace and got a spinach
masala dosa.

## Tuesday February 16

In the evening, around 6 PM, I went to Mehak Indian Cuisine to pick up
an online order. I wore my KN95 mask in the restaurant and for most of
the journey; I had minimal human contact in the restaurant and none
for the journey.

## Saturday February 20

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first bought groceries
from Trader Joe's, finishing checkout at 5:03 PM. I then went to Udupi
Palace and got a spinach masala dosa. The inside and outside of the
restaurant had a few people -- I mostly waited outside. I wore a KN95
mask for the whole trip, as usual.

## Tuesday February 23

In the evening, I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and got a yellow curry
with tofu. I paid by cash. I spent most of my waiting time outside the
restaurant. I wore a KN95 mask.

## Thursday February 25

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to Trader
Joe's to buy groceries; I finished checkout at 4:35 PM. I then went to
Udupi Palace and got a spinach masala dosa.

I wore a KN95 mask.

## Sunday February 28

In the morning, I went to Walgreens to buy some toiletries. I finished
my checkout at 9:35 AM. I wore a KN95 mask while in the store.

## Monday March 1

In the morning, I went to Target to buy drain cleaner. I finished
checkout at 9:23 AM. I wore a KN95 mask and had very little human
contact during the trip.

## Wednesday March 3

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to Trader
Joe's to buy groceries; I finished checkout at 5:17 PM. I then went to
Udupi Palace and got a spinach masala dosa.

I wore a KN95 mask.

## Friday March 5

In the afternoon I went to Mehak Indian Cuisine to pick up an online
order. I had minimal human contact. I wore a KN95 mask.

## Wednesday March 10

In the late afternooon, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to
Citibank to deposit money orders and get coins for laundry. The
transactions completed at 4:04 PM. I then went to Berkeley Ace
Hardware to get Drainbo. The transaction completed at 4:13 PM. After
that, I went to Trader Joe's to buy groceries. The transaction
completed at 4:27 PM. Finally, I went to Udupi Palace and got a
spinach masala dosa. I returned to my apartment building around 5 PM.

When I returned, there was a situation outside the apartment
building. I stayed outside, working with a bunch of people to resolve
it. Everybody was masked and reasonably distant. The final steps of
resolution were inside the apartment, and completed a little after 6
PM.

## Wednesday March 17

In the late afternoon, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first got
groceries from Trader Joe's. I finished checkout at 5:11 PM. After
that, I went to Udupi Palace and got a spinach masala dosa.

Later in the evening, I had a ~15-minute indoor chat with a
housemate. I was wearing my KN-95 mask and we maintained distance but
my housemate was unmasked.

## Friday March 19

In the evening I went to Bangkok Thai Cuisine and got a yellow curry
with tofu, along with rice.

## Monday March 22

In the evening, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to Trader
Joe's and bought groceries, finishing my checkout at 6:10 PM. I then
went to Udupi Palace and got a spinach masala dosa.

## Thursday March 25

In the evening I went to Mehak Indian Cuisine to pick up an online
order. I had minimal human interaction. I wore a KN-95 mask.

## Monday March 29

In the afternoon, I went to downtown Berkeley. I first went to Ace
Hardware and bought trash bags. I then went to Trader Joe's and bought
groceries, checking out at 3:07 PM. Finally, I went to Udupi Palace
and got a spinach masala doosa. I wore a KN95 mask.

I also had some nontrivial in-person conversations with housemates; I
was masked but they were not.

## Saturday April 3

### Morning trip to Walgreens

In the morning, I went to the Walgreens on Gilman Street and bought
toilet paper. I wore a KN95 mask while in the store. The checkout
finished at 9:36 AM.
