# 2021-12-15 periodontal therapy followup appointment

This is an attempt to describe, from recollection, the events of my
periodontal therapy followup appointment with Total Health Dental Care
at 3017 Telegraph Avenue, Suite 300 on 2021-10-06. For background, see
my [first
appointment](2021-09-29-periodontal-therapy-first-appointment.md) and
[second
appointment](2021-10-06-periodontal-therapy-second-appointment.md).

My dental hygienist was Lingho. My appointment was for 1 PM and
started approximately on time.

## Mouthwash

I was initially asked to use mouthwash.

## Evaluation

The appointment began with an evaluation of my teeth and in particular
a measurement of pocket depth over each of my teeth. Most of the
depths were between 1 and 3 mm, which is a reasonable range. The
wisdom teeth had depths of 4 mm. This was a significant improvement
over what it was before the deep cleaning, indicating success of the
deep cleaning and the followup care measures.

## Cleaning process

### Cleaning

The cleaning process was similar to a regular cleaning. Since it was
only surface-level (not deep), no local anesthetic was used.

It involved extensive use of a scaler and air blower, and at the end
some hard use of the plaque scraper.

### Polishing

At the end, the hygienist polished my teeth with something that tasted
like mint.

### Flossing

The hygienist did a round of flossing at the very end.

## Comments by dental staff

### Dental care recommendations

Overall, the hygienist was satisfied and said that six-month followup
should suffice.

The hygienist suggested that I floss and rinse shortly after each meal
if possible. She said that although my overall frequency of flossing
and rinsing should be fine, if the foods I eat tend to be sticky,
having a lot of time elapse between the meal and the floss/rinse can
lead to more buildup.

The other suggestion from the hygienist was to spend a bit more time
on the lower back teeth and the upper back side teeth. She showed me
using a mirror how those teeth had more buildup than my front teeth,
that were quite clean. She said it's easier to clean the front teeth
and there's more visual feedback, so compensate for that by spending
even more time on the back teeth (I do make a conscious effort for the
back teeth, but I should be doing even more).

### Wisdom tooth removal

I asked the hygienist for an updated evaluation of the wisdom tooth
removal recommendation. She said that removing the wisdom teeth would
indeed help, but it wasn't an emergency as long as I continued
following best practices on brushing and flossing, so I should do it
at my convenience. She also said I could do all four teeth together or
one side at a time.

## Followup appointment

I booked a followup appointment for Wednesday, June 15, 2022 at 1:50
PM.

## Discussion with front desk on wisdom tooth removal

The front desk staff said that wisdom tooth removal was charged per
tooth so breaking it into multiple appointments would not cost more
money. However, their standard recommendation was one appointment. For
a few days after the operation, I would not be able to eat solid food
and would have to take great care with brushing.

## Other notes

I took my sunglasses to the appointment, but was advised to switch to
their goggles (that are more like swim goggles, with a tighter seal
and a thinner frame).