This page documents the thought process behind deciding on my blood
tests, as well as the process of getting them.

## Test shortlist

I worked on this test shortlist in January and February 2021. In July
2021, after getting the test results, I added test results at the end
of the section on each test. TL;DR: Omega-3 and LDL readings are
mildly out of range, but I plan to take no further action beyond
retesting within the next year and looking for more plant-based
omega-3 sources.

Total cost of tests in shortlist: LabCorp: $409, Quest Diagnostics:
$373, nontrivial but affordable.

Test results for these and previous tests are at 
https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/sql/test_results.sql
(some previous tests are referenced without details below, so linking to the
SQL file for those interested in checking details).

### Vitamin D: test the success of supplementation in the last 3 years

Test details: https://requestatest.com/vitamin-d-25-hydroxy-testing (LabCorp: $75, Quest Diagnostics: $59)

I have been using regular Vitamin D supplementation since November
2017 and saw an improvement from deficient to low-end-of-normal range
between November 2017 and September 2018. I expect to now be in the
mid-to-high range given that I increased my supplement dose. If I get
in that range, I may continue supplementing at current levels and skip
Vitamin D testing for the next few years.

#### Test results and takeaways

My reading came to 62 ng/mL, my highest ever. For comparison, my
September 2018 reading about 10 months after I started
supplementation, was 35.8 ng / mL. The reference range is 30 to 100
ng / mL.

The current reading seems quite good; it likely reflects the success
of supplementation. I also expect that the current level reflects an
equilibrium achieved by my body; I don't expect major changes through
increased supplementation or by waiting a longer time.

I plan to continue a similar level of supplementation in the future,
but I am switching from Nature Made to Doctor's Best (a vegan
supplement) and increase from 2000 IU to 2500 IU. These changes are
not driven by the test results, but had test results been different I
might have made more and other changes.

I do not plan to get tested for Vitamin D for the next two years.

### Insulin: First baseline test because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/insulin-testing (LabCorp: $59; Quest Diagnostics: $49)

I haven't gotten an insulin test done so far (at least, as far as my
records show). Since I have family members with diabetes, getting
baseline insulin readings may be helpful.

I generally have a reasonably stable diet, and I'm not doing any of
the vitamin supplements right now that would affect insulin testing.

#### Test results and takeaways

My reading came to 3.6 uIU/L, compared to an upper threshold of 19.6,
so it seems in a fairly safe place. No action is needed.

I do not plan to get tested for insulin for the next two years unless
I get a concerning lipid profile result before then.

### HbA1c: Followup measurement because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/hemoglobin-a1c-with-eag-testing (LabCorp: $39; Quest Diagnostics: $36)

My last HbA1c test, in December 2016, came back normal (reading of
5.5). However, since I have family members with diabetes, getting
another reading (almost 5 years after the previous reading) makes
sense.

#### Test results and takeaways

My reading came to 5.0%, compared to a threshold 5.7% for increased
risk of diabetes, and 6.5% for diabetes. My HbA1c seems to be in a
fairly safe place. No action is needed.

I do not plan to get tested for HbA1c for the next two years unless
I get a concerning lipid profile result before then.

### Lipid panel: Followup measurement because of diabetic tendencies

Test details: https://requestatest.com/lipid-panel-testing (LabCorp: $39; Quest Diagnostics: $36)

My last lipid panel in 2017 came back normal. However, given that I
have made a few dietary changes since then, and given diabetes in my
family members, I want to get another test almost four years after the
previous one.

#### Test results and takeaways

In all respects, my lipid profile came out worse than the previous
lipid profile taken November 2017, but the only thing bad in absolute
terms was the LDL (at 124 compared to a threshold of 100). Other
metrics were still reasonably good.

I don't plan to make immediate changes based on this, but I do plan to
do another lipid profile test within about a year to monitor for
continued worsening.

### Complete blood count: one-time baseline

Test details: https://requestatest.com/cbc-with-differential-testing (LabCorp: $34; Quest Diagnostics: $35)

This is hopefully a one-time baseline (EDIT: Many of the underlying
tests were actually done as part of the 2016 gastro blood tests). I'm
not looking for anything specific but it would be good to get
information related to white blood cells and immunity.

#### Test results and takeaways

Everything seemed normal. There are no further action items, and I
expect not to do this test again for the next five years.

### Omega-3

Test details: https://requestatest.com/omega-3-blood-test (LabCorp: $129; Quest Diagnostics: $129)

I [started omega-3
supplementation](2019-12-30-decision-to-start-taking-omega-3-supplements.md)
in early 2020. I want to get a baseline measurement after one year of
supplementation.

#### Test results and takeaways

While the individual readings came within range, the overall
percentage of omega-3 came to 4.6% compared to a minimum 5.5%
"optimal" range. I am not too concerned and expect to continue
maintaining my existing supplementation. However, I might explore
other dietary omega-3 boosts (such as algal oil), and I expect to test
again for this in the next two years.

### Calcium: test the success of both calcium and vitamin D supplementation in recent years

Test details: https://requestatest.com/calcium-testing (LabCorp: $34; Quest Diagnostics: $29)

I have been taking both calcium and vitamin D for a while, so I want
to test my blood calcium levels to make sure that the end result for
my calcium is good.

#### Test results and takeaways

The reading came within range (at 9.6, it was in between the range
from 8.6 to 10.3). I plan to continue my existing supplementation and
don't expect to need to test this again for at least two years.

### Tests that didn't make the cut

I considered and ultimately decided against these:

* https://requestatest.com/vitamin-b12-testing ($59): I was at upper
  end of range last time and I have been taking supplements regularly,
  so I doubt there will be a problem.
* https://requestatest.com/c-reactive-protein-high-sensitivity-testing
  and https://requestatest.com/c-reactive-protein-quantitative-testing
  because they don't seem necessary yet, and because I got a normal
  result for the latter in 2016.
* Various creatine/creatinine tests: I am still thinking about
  these. This is an area where I am likely to be deficient (per my
  2016 test results) but I also don't currently expect to take
  significant action even if I were deficient.
* Magnesium
* Zinc
* Vitamin K

## Process of getting the test

### Booking the test

On June 29, 2021, I reviewed the test shortlist that I had created in
January and February, and decided to book and do the tests. My first
step was to check the prices again and add Quest Diagnostics prices as
well after noticing that they were a little lower than LabCorp
prices. After noting down prices from both labs for all tests, I
confirmed that Quest Diagnostics would come out cheaper. Both labs had
accessible locations in my city of residence Berkeley (though LabCorp
had slightly more, the difference wasn't really significant for my
purpose). So, I ended up going with Quest Diagnostics.

The location I selected was 2999 Regent Street, Berkeley, CA 94705
open M-F 7:00 am-5:30 pm.

### Getting my blood taken

I got my blood work done at Quest Diagnostics on 2999 Regent Street on
Wednesday, June 30, around 8:35 AM. This was almost 15 hours after I
had last eaten (I finished my last meal a little after 5:30 PM on
Tuesday).

More details of my trip are in the [2021 activity
tracker](2021-activity-tracker#wednesday-june-30).

### Test results

The results were posted on the morning of Tuesday July 6 (I got the
email at 8:37 AM Pacific Time). I have finished reviewing the results
and added notes on test results and takeaways below each test in this
document. Additionally,
https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/sql/test_results.sql
has full details of this and previous tests.

TL;DR: Omega-3 and LDL readings are mildly out of range, but I plan to
take no further action beyond retesting within the next year and
looking for more plant-based omega-3 sources.
