# 2021-10-06 periodontal therapy second appointment

This is an attempt to describe, from recollection, the events of the
second periodontal therapy appointment with Total Health Dental Care
on 2021-10-06. For background, see my [first
appointment](2021-09-29-periodontal-therapy-first-appointment.md).

My dental hygienist was Danielle. She was filling in for Diane, my
hygienist of last time, who was on vacation.

My appointment was for 1 PM but things ran a little late, so I started
around 1:10 PM.

## Local anesthetic

The hygienist applied a local anesthetic. She began with a topical
anesthetic for initial numbing, then injected the main anesthetics of
articaine and lidocaine. She did the upper and lower teeth separately
and did a rinse (blowing air) after each round of injection.

## Evaluation

The previous appointment had been for the right side of the mouth, and
this one was for the left side. Before she started the cleaning
process, I asked the hygienist for her evaluation of the differences
between the sides. She said that the right side was more pink and
fresh and the left side was more red and inflamed. This suggests that
the previous appointment and follow-on care seems to be working as
expected.

I also told the hygienist about pain I experienced a few hours after
the procedure last time that healed in a day. She said that the
anesthetic wears off in a few hours but swelling can last for up to
three days, so the period in between (after the anesthetic wears off
but before the healing is done) can be a period where some pain
occurs.

## Cleaning process

Unlike the first appointment, the hygienist did not do any polishing.

### Scaling and root planing

The main work then began. For the most part, the anesthetic seemed to
work well. I did feel slight tingling during work on the upper left
back, so at my request the hygienist applied extra anesthetic
there. The additional anesthetic worked as expected.

I also was able to feel the work on the area at the middle of the
mouth when the hygienist worked on that area. It wasn't significant
though and didn't cause any pain.

### Scraping

Near the end the hygienist did some scraping. In my recollection, the
time spent scraping was much more than it had been for the first
appointment.

### Flossing

Near the end, the hygienist flossed the teeth in the left half of the
mouth.

### Mouthwash spray

At the end, the hygienist used an antibacterial spray (a mouthwash) on
the pockets.

## Feedback and aftercare guidance

Other than the evaluation mentioned above, the hygienist didn't give
specific feedback. She did recommend not eating until the anesthetic
had worn off.

## Next appointment

My next appointment for a followup evaluation was booked for next
Wednesday, December 15, at 1 PM.

## Later followup

The additional anesthetic that I had requested resulted in the numbing
extending above my mouth to my left nostril and left cheek, including
the area right below the eye. As of 3:30 PM, the anesthetic was still
fairly strong and I did not identify any areas of pain, swelling, or
bleeding.
