# 2021-12-24 Pfizer COVID vaccine: booster dose

This document describes my experience after receiving the booster dose
of the Pfizer COVID vaccine on Friday, December 24, 2021 at the
Walgreens on Gilman Street.

## Temperature readings

Time (may be approximate) | Context | Reading in degrees Fahrenheit
-- | -- | --
2021-12-24 2:10 PM | Before heading out for my COVID shot | 98.7
2021-12-24 4:00 PM | After returning from my COVID shot | 97.7
2021-12-24 5:54 PM | After having dinner and cleaning up | 98.4

## Appointment booking (Tuesday December 7)

I had received my second Pfizer COVID vaccine dose on Friday, June 25,
2021, as I had documented
[here](2021-06-25-pfizer-covid-vaccine-dose-2.md). I was therefore
eligible to receive a booster dose on December 23, 2021 or later, per
the minimum-180-day gap requirement.

On Tuesday, December 7, 2021, amidst increased concerns about omicron,
I decided to book and get my booster sooner rather than later. I had
seen, in past shopping at the Walgreens on Gilman Street, that Pfizer
COVID boosters are available there. My first two doses had been at a
somewhat distant Safeway, but I decided to get the booster from
Walgreens, which was within walking distance.

Another advantage of getting the booster now is that I anticipated
that things would be more relaxed work-wise around late December,
right when I became eligible for the booster, so the adverse impact of
any booster side-effects on my work would be reduced.

As for the exact date of the booster, I thought about both December 23
and December 24. I ultimately picked December 24 as it was a holiday
(Christmas Eve) so the impact on my work would be even less. The next
three days after December 24 are also holidays, and I expect to be
fully recovered by the next working day, December 28.

## Priors

The LessWrong post [Quick Poll: Booster
Reactions](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/QHBBeSYqdFdnNcFut/quick-poll-booster-reactions)
by Elizabeth informed my priors before getting the booster. I did not
have access to this post when I booked my appointment (it was
published on December 20).

## Booster shot (Friday December 24)

I left my home around 2:30 PM. I took with me my COVID vaccine card as
well as my insurance card.

I arrived at Walgreens at 2:54 PM. I first went through a checkin
procedure with the pharmacy front desk. It turns out that some of the
information that I thought I had submitted online had not gotten
through, so I had to submit my insurance card in person. I also filled
in the standard form.

Around 3:05 PM, I went to the waiting area outside the vaccination
room. I took off my sweatshirt and double-masked myself (surgical mask
on top of my usual KN95 mask) and wore my sunglasses while I waited.

Around 3:10 PM, I was called inside. I asked for the shot to be given
on my right arm. The process finished in a minute. The pharmacist was
the same person who had given me my flu shot. She then gave me my
COVID vaccine card with the booster information noted at the bottom of
the card. She told me to wait in the waiting area for 15 minutes to
check for side-effects and then head back home.

I waited around 7 minutes and then did some shopping, checking out at
3:23 PM. I ended up leaving a little before the 15-minute mark.

I got back home around 3:50 PM.

It was drizzling for part of my journey to and from the Walgreens, and
I used an umbrella.

### Experience of the booster itself

My subjective experience of the "prick" for this dose was that it was
sharper and more painful than my second dose. This probably had more
to do with things like the exact location, type of needle, and
pharmacist's style than with the dose itself, which should be
identical to the second dose. (Maggie, the pharmacist who administered
the second dose, had said that it depends on the pharmacist's skill
when I had remarked to her that the prick was very light).

I did feel a little bit fatigued for a couple of minutes after the
booster, but this was likely due to my double-masking + sunglasses and
the physical effect of the prick, than the actual stuff injected.
