# 2022-01-04: COVID Omicron precautions update

This post is an update to a [similar post I wrote on
2021-07-10](2021-07-10-covid-ongoing-precautions-update.md) outlining
my updated thinking on COVID-19 precautions in light of the Omicron
update.

## Background on Omicron

* [Omicron: My Current
  Model](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/zFhhDCxz87yKwqYQf/omicron-my-current-model)
  by Zvi is the best summary of the overall model of what's going on
  that is influencing me (though my value judgments may differ from Zvi's).

* [Omicron Post
  #12](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/bSmRKNjTcX2soKAff/omicron-post-12)
  is the latest post in Zvi's series as of the time of my writing this
  note.

* The [LessWrong COVID-19
  tag](https://www.lesswrong.com/tag/covid-19?sortedBy=new) is my *de
  facto* news source.

* [COVID-19 cases in Alameda
  County](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Data:COVID-19_cases_in_Alameda_County,_California.tab)
  has the data on COVID prevalence in my region.

The information in the above links, and in stuff they cite, shows that
Omicron is taking over quickly, both in my locality and more
broadly. I anticipate this heightened state to last for much of
January and possibly for a large part of February. I'm moderately
optimistic things will be on the downswing by March 1, and I can
reassess the precautions.

### My personal situation

I recently got a [booster
shot](2021-12-24-pfizer-covid-vaccine-booster-dose.md), so there isn't
more I can do in terms of getting boosted.

Other than groceries and toiletries, I don't have any immediate needs
to interact with people. Most of my interactions with friends and
others are over email, phone, and Meet/Zoom; in general, even when
we're physically nearby, my friends are amenable to meeting virtually.

In late December, there were two instances of people I was planning to
meet, where we decided to meet virtually, and where the other person
appears to have gotten sick before the meeting. I do not know if it
was COVID though one of them suspected it was.

People in situations different than mine may come to different
conclusions even if they fully shared my epistemic priors. In
particular:

* If you are living with family, especially children, for whom it
  isn't practical or desirable to take these precautions, it may
  reasonably be the case that the risk exposure for the family unit as
  a whole is high enough that these kinds of marginal precautions
  aren't that important. Other precautions might make more sense if
  you expect higher base rates of exposure, such as good ventilation
  or investing in P100 masks.

* If you experience significant personal disutility from COVID
  precautions, you may prefer to take fewer of them.

## Precautions

### Stuff to defer or substitute

For these kinds of activities, I'll defer to March 1 or later, or
substitute with a virtual equivalent if possible:

* Nonessential medical trips: Luckily, I already got through my blood
  tests in Q3 2021 and my dental and eye stuff in Q4 2021 so I don't
  need to do anything for Q1 2022.

* Meeting friends in person: Wherever feasible, I'll try to substitute
  an in-person social meeting request with a virtual one, or defer to
  after March 1. However, brief visits e.g. to give or get physical
  goods are fine.

* Use of BART and shopping in dense areas: I'll generally try to avoid
  using BART and shopping in dense areas (with the exception of
  grocery shopping that I need to do).

### Additional precautions during trips

When I do go out into moderately dense indoor environments, I plan to
adopt additional precautions:

* Sunglasses
* Double masking (surgical mask on top of KN95 mask)

I have a surplus of surgical masks that are set to expire by mid-2023,
so adopting these precautions for a couple of months won't affect my
available supplies in a meaningful way.

### Temperature checks and COVID tests

I plan to also do temperature checks before and after each outside
trip. Also, if I do meet somebody personally I will ask them to also
do a temperature check. If they've had meaningful external contact
I'll also suggest a negative COVID test.

I don't plan to stock up on COVID tests in advance, but might buy them
if my situation changes to the point where I expect to have more
interaction with others.

I expect to retire these additional precautions once the current
Omicron wave ends.
