# Activity tracker listing times and places I was outside the house

This continues with the spirit of my [2021 activity
tracker](2021-activity-tracker.md), recording my trips outside the
home. I exclude trips for jogging and running. I also exclude trips
for grocery purchases and picking up takeout from restaurants; you can
get a sense for those trips by looking in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Monday January 10

In the evening, I made a trip to Citibank in downtown Berkeley for
some financial transactions, finishing at 4:48 PM. The food purchases
in the rest of my trip are recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Saturday January 22

In the late morning / early afternoon, I made a trip to Walgreens to
purchase toiletries. I paid by card and finished checkout at 12:15 PM.

## Wednesday February 2

In the evening, I made a trip to Citibank in downtown Berkeley for
some financial transactions, finishing at 4:56 PM. The food purchases
in the rest of my trip are recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Thursday February 17

In the evening, I made a trip to Ace Hardware in downtown Berkeley to
buy city of Berkeley trash bags. I finished checkout at 4:33 PM. The
food purchases in the rest of my trip are recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Sunday February 20

In the afternoon, I made a trip to Target on University Avenue to buy
toiletries. I finished checkout at 1:47 PM. I also did a food order
pickup from Mehak Indian Cuisine, recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Friday February 25

In the afternoon, I made a trip to Citibank in downtown Berkeley and
got quarters for $20. The food purchases in the rest of my trip are
recorded in [food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Monday February 28

During the day, I went to a WeWork to hang out with some friends. I
was in the WeWork from 10 AM to 1 PM and again from 2:30 PM to 5:30
PM.

On the way back after the first meeting, I went to Citibank where I
withdrew quarters for 20 dollars. I finished that transaction at 1:02
PM.

On the way back after the second meeting, I dropped by the
Walgreens in downtown Berkeley and then by Udupi Palace; the latter is
recorded in [food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).
