# 2022-12-21 dental cleaning

This was a regular dental cleaning appointment at Total Health Dental
Care at 3017 Telegraph Avenue. It was the successor to the [2022-06-15
dental cleaning appointment](2022-06-15-dental-cleaning.md).

The hygienist, Lingho, was the same as last time.

## Mouthwash

I was initially asked to use mouthwash.

## Evaluation and discussion

The in-office dentist had called sick, so my appointment was conducted
with a remote dentist. To facilitate this, the hygienist first took my
dental X-rays and then took a bunch of photos of my teeth to send to
the doctor. I then got on a call with the doctor (Dr. Mitchell) who
said that my teeth looked fine.

Although my periodontal chart was also supposed to be done in this
appointment, the extra time overhead due to taking photographs, as
well as the seemingly good condition of my gums, led the hygienist to
decide to defer the periodontal chart to next time.

### Discussion of wisdom tooth removal

#### One or both sides: cost and post-operation care

The dentist said that I should be getting my wisdom teeth removed soon,
as recommended previously. I asked her if she recommends doing all
four together or one side at a time. She said that generally patients
prefer to do all together, but one side at a time is also fine.

After getting the teeth removed, for the first week it's only possible
to have fluids and soft foods (such as mashed potatoes). If I do one
side at a time, then I can be a little more expansive in what foods I
have, but extremely careful in my chewing.

Cost-wise, there isn't a difference in the base cost; however, if I
opt for a sedative, then the sedative portion of the cost will be
incurred twice if I do the sides separately.

#### Sedative

The dentist recommended the use of a sedative so the operation happens
while I am asleep. I sought clarification on whether a sedative was
necessary for pain reduction, given that there would be local
anesthetic in the area. She said it wasn't necessary for pain
reduction, but was more for overall comfort. She said that her own
wisdom tooth removal was done with a sedative.

#### Temporal relationship with dental cleaning

The dentist said that for pain/comfort reasons, it was best to not do
a dental cleaning for at least one month after the operation. However,
it would be fine to do the dental cleaning *before* the operation.

### Question about gum bleeding and dental cleaning

I mentioned to the dentist that I had a brief, self-healing incident
of gum bleeding the previous week. I asked if, were such a minor
bleeding incident happen shortly before my cleaning appointment, I
should cancel the appointment or keep it. The dentist recommended
keeping the appointment, as the cleaning could help with the gum
bleed. The dentist also recommended flossing the teeth near the
bleeding area extra carefully.

### Additional feedback from hygienist

The hygienist said that my teeth looked good, and that I should
continue using the same routine, maybe with a little extra flossing. I
thanked her for her suggestion last time to use a floss holder, and
mentioned that I started using it based on her recommendation, and it
seems to be going fine.

The hygienist said something about taking a little more care to clean
the base of my teeth, as there was a slight accumulation there.

## Cleaning process

### Polishing

The hygienist began with application of polish (normally that is done
later, not sure for the reason for changing the order?).

### Scraping/scaling

The hygienist went on to use the scaler for scaling and scraping the
teeth.

At one point, she recommended I use a gadget to bite on so that I
could keep my mouth wide open (my mouth was not wide enough open for
parts of the cleaning process). However, after a few minutes of using
the gadget, I asked for it to be removed due to the discomfort.

### Flossing and air blowing

The hygienist did flossing of my teeth and then did a final round of
air blowing.

## Followup appointment

The next appointment has been booked for Wednesday, June 28, 2023
at 1 PM.
