# 2022-04-05 fall and phone screen crack

On the morning of 2022-04-05, around 9:10 AM Pacific Time, I fell when
running on the sidewalk of Delaware Street somewhere between Franklin
Street and West Street. I probably tripped between the tiles and fell
forward.

I used my hands to contain my fall. I was holding my phone in one of
my hands, so it fell on its glass surface and the glass surface
cracked. I got injuries on both my palms, my right shoulder, and the
side of my right knee.

I immediately went back home, ran water over the wounds, and then used
bandages to cover the wounds.

After a few hours (around 2 PM), I switched out the large bandage for
the knee for a smaller bandage, reduced the two bandages on the left
hand to one, and removed the bandage from my right hand.

Around 9 PM, I changed the bandage on the left hand and added a spot
bandage on the right side.

I went to sleep araound 2 AM (I stayed up late to deal with various
items including phone setup; I also chose to sleep late because I
wanted to wait for as much healing as possible before sleeping (where
I might end up putting weight on an injured shoulder).

## Next day (2022-04-06)

I got up around 7 AM. I was feeling better at the injured sites, but
noticed more pronounced pain in my left arm (insode of elbow) that
made it hard to e.g. stretch the arm along certain angles such as to
tie my hair. This might be because while sleeping I avoided sleeping
on my right side due to the injury in the right shoulder, so I might
have slept too long on my left side and exacerbated an internal injury
there. I expect to more fully recover by the end of the day, also
because unlike the previous day (where I walked for over 4 hours and
was outside the home for about 6 hours) I intend to mostly stay at
home and exhaust myself less.

## Takeaways

My base rate of falls is low enough; this particular fall was milder
than the last one in December 2014, primarily because I have formed a
habit of running more slowly on tiled sodewalks. However, one
additional risk factor was the mobile phone that I was holding in my
hand (the phone doesn't stably stay in my pocket when I'm running, so
I hold it in my hand). This risk factor did end up being the dominant
damage.

I think the overall rate of stumbling and falling is pretty low
averaged over the years, and it probably isn't worth trying to reduce
the rate further. I also think the risk/cost of not carrying my phone
is higher than the risk of occasional damage. However, I might want to
think about whether there's a way to reduce the risk to my phone. For
instance, I might want to take my backup phone (that is already
cracked) for short daily runs where I don't take my bag.
