# 2022-06-21: hand sanitizer squirt

Right before going out for my run, I use hand sanitizer on my hands to
clean them (I do this instead of handwashing since I prefer not to use
my shoes to go into the restroom and get shoe dirt inside the house).

On this day, for the morning run at around 10 AM, when I pumped the
hand sanitizer, it squirted out and fell partly into my face,
including hitting my eyes (that I closed, so it mostly didn't get in)
and a drop on my lips. I kept my eyes closed for a few seconds, then
walked to the restroom, I was able to flush my eyes and wash it off
and didn't have any lasting damage.

I experienced a bit of irritation in the next hour and did a few more
round of flushing over the next two hours. I did not see any redness
in my eye, and I'm not sure if the irritation is more than usual;
maybe I was just monitoring more closely for it.

## What I did right

I did two things right:

* I closed my eyes when the squirt headed to them, and then kept them
  closed for a few seconds, allowing the eyes to flush the alcohol
  out.

* I flushed the eyes with water immediately after I was able to open
  my eyes again.

## Protocol updates

### Placement changes

Also based on this I changed the position of hand sanitizer at one
other place in my house (a third place already had it at almost floor
level.

Based on reading more online guidance, I also think that for such
incidents in the future, I should flush my eyes for a couple extra
minutes even after they feel fine. (I basically just did a few seconds
of flushing and felt fine after that,

Ideally I should have made these protocol updates earlier.

### Nozzle blockage checks

I occasionally check the hand sanitizer nozzles for blockages, but I
should be doing these checks more regularly and systematically and
clearing out blockages. This reduces the likelihood of squirts (like
today's) and means less waste.

### Longer flushing periods if something does get in the eye

If something does get in my eye, I should flush it for a longer period
than what feels necessary to my eye based on my short-run
sensation. Flushing for a few seconds then waiting a few seconds, then
flushing again, seems like a good way to flush. In this case I did
just one round of flushing first, and had to come back and do more
rounds of flushing later; had I stuck on with multiple round s of
flushing upfront, even after my eyes felt fine, my recovery would have
been smoother.
