# 2022-07-01: bleeding cut on right middle finger PIP joint

On 2022-07-01, I noticed bleeding of a cut on the PIP joint of my right middle finger.

## Original cut: a few days old

I believe the original cut was at least three days old, as I had first
noticed it a few days ago. At the time, it was not bleeding. Whenever
I was using vaseline I would take special care to rub over the cut.

Unfortunately, the location of the cut was such that handwashing or
use of hand sanitizer risked touching the cut. It also meant that
bandaging the cut was somewhat inconvenient. So, although I did use
vaseline, I didn't bandage the cut prior to it starting to bleed.

I was initially worried there would be a bleeding incident similar to
the left middle knuckle bleed seen with the last [eye and skin
irritation](2022-05-26-eye-and-skin-irritation.md). I would be
particularly careful to check multiple times during my
jogging. However, by 2022-07-01, I felt that the cut was in the
process of healing as it hadn't bled yet.

### Potential root causes

One potential root cause is one of my shorts that had zipped pockets;
when putting stuff in or taking stuff out of the zipped pockets, that
portion of skin can come in contact with the zip lining.

While frequent handwashing may be an aggravating factor (partly
cancelled by the use of vaseline) I don't believe it was causal and
the rest of my hands seem to be in good shape.

I don't think the irritation is weather-related because it has been
warm and the rest of my skin is in good shape.

## Noticing bleeding

On the evening of 2022-07-01, after working on my computer in the dark
for about two hours (and maybe applying vaseline sometime in between
that), when I got up to get water, I put on the light, and I noticed
bleeding of the cut. I applied vaseline and bandaged the cut. I'm not
sure if bandaging will be feasible in the longer term, but I'm hoping
to at least bandage overnight and for the morning run.
