# 2023 exercise tracker

## 2023-08-21 to 2023-09-05: break from exercise (with some resumption toward the end) due to wisdom tooth removal

More details:
[2023-08-23-wisdom-tooth-removal-right-side.md](2023-08-23-wisdom-tooth-removal-right-side.md)
(see the Exercise plans section for plans and the Exercise section for
what actually happened)

For my right side wisdom tooth removal on Wednesday August 23, I took
a planned break from exercise. My stopping of all exercise started
Monday August 21, two days before the procedure, and continued till
Monday August 28.

On Tuesday August 29, I resumed some mild exercises
(standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed, hand gripper, flexibility
exercises, and Buteyko breath hold.

On Monday September 4, I went jogging for the first time since
stopping. I took a break on Tuesday September 5, and then starting
Wednesday September 6 I resumed my full normal routine including
jogging and strength exercises (weights and pushups).

## 2023-09-20 to 2023-09-23: break from exercise due to air quality issues

More details: [2023-09-19-onward-air-quality-issues.md](2023-09-19-onward-air-quality-issues.md)

Berkeley experienced air quality issues from the afternoon of
2023-09-19 to the evening of 2023-09-23. I had already finished my jog
on the morning of 2023-09-19 prior to the air quality issues. For
2023-09-20 to 2023-09-23, I skipped jogging, strength exercises, as
well as other exercises to keep my breathing needs to a minimum.

## 2023-09-25 to 2023-09-27: break from running and strength exercises due to dental cleaning appointment

See [here](2023-09-27-dental-cleaning.md#exercise-plans) for details.

## 2023-09-28: halved run, with running both ways

I had limited time for my run as I needed to return for a meeting. So
I did a half-run, but ran both forward and back, so that my total
distance run was similar to the usual distance.

## 2023-09-30: deferred run due to probability of rain

I decided to defer or skip my morning run, due to the cast weather and
the 15% probability of rain, that seems too high to risk going
out. However, I might go out later in the day even if the probability
of rain doesn't go down; I'm hoping it goes down and I can go out with
less risk.

Oh wait ... as I was writing this, the probability did drop. However,
it's getting late and I need to eat. So I'll probably go in the
afternoon a couple of hours after eating.
