# Activity tracker listing times and places I was outside the house

This continues with the spirit of my [2021 activity
tracker](2021-activity-tracker.md), recording my trips outside the
home. I exclude trips for jogging and running. I also exclude trips
for grocery purchases and picking up takeout from restaurants; you can
get a sense for those trips by looking in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Tuesday January 3

In the afternoon, I made a trip to Citibank for some financial
transactions. I finished around 1:35 PM. I then went to Trader Joe's
for food purchases recorded at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Sunday January 8

In the late afternoon, I made a trip to Citibank for an ATM
transaction.  I finished around 4:15 PM. I then went to Trader Joe's
for food purchases recorded at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Thursday January 12

In the evening, I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I first stopped at
the Walgreens at Adeline Street to purchase suppplements, finishing
around 5:20 PM. I then did some food purchases recorded at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Monday January 23

I spent a large part of the day at Joinn Innovation Park with one of
my work colleagues. I took BART + bus for the way to, and got a lift
from my colleague for the way back.

## Thursday January 26

In the evening, I made a trip to Udupi Palace for an in-person dinner
with a work colleague, after which I made a trip to Trader Joe's. I've
recorded the food purchased in both places at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Wednesday March 1

In the late afternoon/early evening, I went to Walgreens for some
long-overdue toiletries purchases. I left my home around 3:15 PM. I
finished checkout at Walgreens around 3:45 PM, and I was back home
shortly after 4 PM.

## Friday March 3

In the later afternoon/early evening, I went to Walgreens for a FedEx
package pickup of my work laptop for my upcoming job start on
Monday. I was in the store from around 3:55 PM to around 4:10 PM.

## Tuesday March 7

In the late afternoon/early evening, I made a trip to the Amazon Hub
Locker pickup location at Whole Foods on Telegraph Avenue to pick up a
package. I left my home shortly before 4 PM and got back shortly after
4:30 PM.

## Wednesday March 8

In the late afternoon/early evening, I made a trip to the Amazon Hub
Locker pickup location at Whole Foods on Telegraph Avenue to pick up a
package. I left my home shortly after 4 PM and got back shortly after
4:30 PM.

## Friday March 31

In the evening, I made a trip to the Amazon Hub Locker pickup location
at ASUC Berkeley to pick up a few packages. I then went to downtown
Berkeley for my usual food purchases recorded at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Saturday April 8

In the afternoon, I made a trip to the Citibank in downtown Berkeley
for some financial transactions. After finishing, I made my usual food
purchases recorded at [food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

Later. in the evening, I made a trip to Walgreens for toiletries
purchases. I finished checkout at 5:30 PM.

## Friday April 14

In the late afternoon / early evening, I made a trip to Walgreens to
buy toiletries. The purchase was around 4:30 PM. After finishing, I
made my usual food purchases recorded at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Friday April 28

In the evening, I made a trip to Walgreens to top up on
supplements. The purchase was made at 7:39 PM. After finishing, I made
my usual food purchases recorded at
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).
