# 2023-08-23 wisdom tooth removal (right side)

This document is about the right side wisdom tooth removal, part of
the [2023 wisdom tooth removal
saga](2023-wisdom-tooth-removal.md). For the left side, done prior,
see
[2023-07-05-wisdom-tooth-removal-left-side.md](2023-07-05-wisdom-tooth-removal-left-side.md).

Sections of this document:

* [Prior preparation and review on 2023-08-18](#prior-preparation-and-review-on-2023-08-18)
* [Measurements](#measurements)
* [Appointment](#appointment)
* [Bleeding and gauze changes](#bleeding-and-gauze-changes)
* [Application of ice pack](#application-of-ice-pack)
* [Consumption of medications](#consumption-of-medications)
* [Food](#food)
* [Sleep](#sleep)
* [Exercise](#exercise)
* [Dental self-care](#dental-self-care)
* [Physical environment and stimulation](#physical-environment-and-stimulation)
* [Overall retrospective](#overall-retrospective)

## Prior preparation and review on 2023-08-18

### Medical stuff

#### Painkillers

I believe I'm already stocked up on medical stuff. This includes stuff
from the left side appointment that I didn't complete:

* 4 left-over doses of hydrocodone / acetaminophen 325 mg each, out of
  10 total (I used up 6)
* 14 left-over doses of ibuprofen 800 mg each, out of 20 total (I used
  up 6)

In addition, I have over-the-counter acetaminophen and ibuprofen,
within expiration date, as follows:

* 23 doses of acetaminophen (I had one dose as a test previously out
  the 24 total) 500 mg
* 20 doses of ibuprofen 200 mg

This seems like more than enough in terms of painkillers, and so I can
request to not be prescribed any further painkillers.

#### Antibiotics

I have 22 doses left out of the 28 doses of clindamycin, that I
stopped due to adverse effects. This time, I would like to *not* take
antibiotics so as to not disturb my digestion again. However, I'll see
if the doctor has strong views on this, or has a suggestion for
alternative antibiotics.

#### Gauze and gauze pads

I expect to get gauze and gauze pads at the location, but I also have
a stock of gauze and gauze pads purchased from Walgreens, that I can
use if I need more after using up the ones at the location.

### Food plans

#### Food purchase trips

My current plans for food trips are as follows:

* DONE 2023-08-18: Trip to Trader Joe's Friday August 18 for regular
  food purchase -- during this trip, the only difference from my usual
  routine will be that I will *not* purchase tortillas, carrots, nuts,
  and sauerkraut.

* Trip to Berkeley Bowl some time between Saturday August 19 and
  Monday August 21: I'll use this trip to stock up on vegan yogurt,
  and possibly to purchase more rice.

* Possible additional trip to Trader Joe's between Saturday August 19
  and Monday August 21: I might do an additional trip for more focused
  stocking up, to minimize the need for further food trips in the week
  after the surgery.

My goal is to be fully stocked up on food by the end of day Monday
August 21 so that I do not need to take any trips on Tuesday August
22, and can focus on meal prep and relaxing at home.

#### Food consumption guidance prior to procedure

These are my current thoughts on foods to avoid:

* **No nuts consumption after Friday August 18**: As nuts are hard and can
  cause minor tooth injuries, I want to avoid them to reduce the risk
  of injuries to my right side (where it might compound the pain) and
  my left side (that I need in a very functional state as I can only
  use that side).

* **No outside food consumption after Friday August 18**: As outside food
  carries slightly more risk, I want to have Friday August 18 be the
  last day for outside food.

* **No sauerkraut consumption after Sunday August 20**: As sauerkraut is a
  bit acidic and can cause a sore throat, and I've had issues with it
  in the past, I will stop consuming sauerkraut after August 20.

These are my thoughts on foods to add in:

* **Vegan probiotic yogurts**: I will resume having vegan probiotic
  yogurts prior to the operation to replace sauerkraut for the
  probiotic benefits.

* **Tomato soup**: I should probably finish the existing batch of
  tomato soup prior to the operation (and throw it out if it's not
  great) so that after the operation I start on a fresh batch and
  reduce the risk of digestive upset.

These are my thoughts on timing:

* **Finish second meals by 8 PM every day starting Saturday August 19**: This
  is to keep my digestion in good shape.

  How did I do?

  * Saturday August 19: Finished around 7:30 PM

* **Go to sleep by 11:30 PM every day starting Saturday August 19**: This is to
  promote early sleep/waking and reduce the risk of digestive cycle
  issues on the day of the procedure.

  How did I do? See the sleep section.

* **Finish first meals by 11:30 AM every day starting Saturday August
    19**: This is again so that the day of the operation is not
    unusual in terms of the timing of my first meal.

  How did I do?

  * Saturday August 19: Ended shortly after noon (about 30-45 minutes
    late), because I slept late on Friday.

  * Sunday August 20: Ended shortly after noon (about 30-45 minutes
    late); that's because I woke up a bit late as I slept an
    additional hour to catch up on a slight backlog.

  But I expect Monday and Tuesday to be according to plan, as I don't
  even plan to do a morning jog so even if I wake up the same time as
  Sunday I'll be good (and probably I'll wake up earlier as I'll
  continue to sleep earlier).

#### Meal prep prior to procedure

* I should make sure I'm well-stocked on mixed vegetables prior to the
  procedure.

* I should also make sure I'm well-stocked on cooked potatoes so I can
  resume them as soon as I can have soft solid food.

* I should also make sure I'm well-stocked on cooked peas so I can
  resume them as soon as I can have soft solid food.

* Ideally I should cook rice on Tuesday so that I can have it cool
  (without spending prep time) when I am ready to resume.

I should budget a bunch of time on Tuesday for all the needed meal prep.

#### Food consumption guidance after procedure

Based on my experience with the left side wisdom tooth removal, I
expect to have food around 5.5 hours after the procedure, i.e., around
7 PM.

This is my current plan:

* Wednesday August 23 7 PM: Cool liquid foods (mix of vegan probiotic
  yogurts, almond milk, miso soup, and tomato soup)

* Maybe Wednesday August 23 late night (around 1 AM): Cool liquid foods again

* Maybe Thursday August 24 morning/early afternoon: Cool liquid foods again

* Thursday August 24 evening (after doing at least one saltwater rinse
  without any forceful spitting): Soft solid foods (rice, cooked
  potatoes, cooked peas, mixed vegetables) + cool liquid foods

* Continue with soft solid foods + cool liquid foods for at least
  three more days (Friday, Saturday, Sunday). In particular, no
  tortillas or carrots.

* Starting Monday August 28 I can resume consumption of tortillas, and
  the next cooked meal can include carrots.

* As for outside food, no outside food until Saturday September 2.

#### When to go out for food purchases (to Trader Joe's, Berkeley Bowl etc.)

Unless I run out of stuff and need something urgently, I should aim to
stock up enough that I don't need to go out for food purchases until
Monday August 28.

#### When to start allowing food chewing on the right side

My current thinking is to start allowing food chewing on the right
side on Friday August 30, a week after the operation, assuming that
I've had at least a day without any significant pain.

### Sleep plans

As mentioned above, I aim to sleep by 11:30 PM every day starting Saturday August 19.

I also hope to wake up organically around 8:30 AM with natural bowel
movement within 30-45 minutes of waking up. I will set an alarm for
around 9:15 AM except on days where I have earlier appointments.

How did I do?

* Saturday August 19: I went to sleep around 11:35 PM, just five
  minutes later than the target.

### Exercise plans

#### Break from all exercise on Monday August 21, Tuesday August 22, and Wednesday August 23

I want to be well-rested prior to the operation, so I'll take a break
from all exercise on Monday August 21, Tuesday August 22, and
Wednesday August 23 prior to the operation. This includes jogging,
weights/pushups, Buteyko breathing, and hand gripper exercises. I
might use the freed-up time on Monday to fit in a Trader Joe's trip.

I might make an exception for balance exercises (standing on one leg).

#### Extremely reduced physical activity for 26 hours after procedure

For the 26 hours after the procedure, except the return journey back
home, I should maintain extremely reduced physical activity. This
means no unnecessary walking/strolling, and mostly just sitting,
getting up for toilet trips, and going to sleep.

#### Continued break from all exercise until Monday August 28 (inclusive)

I should continue to take a break from all exercise until Monday
August 28 (inclusive).

#### Resume balance exercises on Tuesday August 29

Starting Tuesday August 29 I can resume balance exercises.

#### Resume hand gripper exercises on Thursday August 31

Starting Thursday August 31 I can resume hand gripper exercises. I
should take care to not have the exercise result in a clenched jaw in
a way that could hurt my teeth.

#### Resume alternate-day jogging on Saturday September 2 and daily jogging on Monday September 4

My first jogging attempt can be on Saturday September 2. However, I
should rest the next day and start daily jogging on Monday September
4.

#### Resume weights and pushups around Wednesday September 6

I should resume weights and pushups around Wednesday September 6.

### Dental self-care plans

My current plan is as follows:

* **Saltwater rinses**: First saltwater rinse (no forceful spitting)
  around 26-30 hours after the operation. After that, regular
  saltwater rinses after each meal. Proactive rinse/spitting to only
  start at least 3 days after the operation.

* **Flossing**: Regular flossing excluding the sensitive area starting
  after the meal I have on the evening after the operation (so about
  30 hours after). Flossing near the sensitive area to begin about a
  week after the operation.

* **Brushing**: First brushing the night after the operation, so about
  36 hours after. Brushing of the sensitive area to begin a week after
  the operation.

### Laundry

I ideally want to be well-set in terms of laundry so that I don't have
to do laundry in the immediate aftermath of the operation. My plan is
to do regular and heavy laundry on Monday August 21. Last time I made
the mistake of having both laundry *and* food prep piled up for the
Tuesday right before the operation, so that that was a rather hectic
day (though still one where I stayed at home).

### Ice packs

I plan to apply the ice pack regularly on the affected area after the
operation, for about 5-6 hours.

### Self-measurement

I plan to take regular readings of temperature and heart rate
throughout the process.

## Measurements

For baseline temperature and pulse oximeter measurements to compare
against, see these documents:

* [2021-08 temperature baseline](2021-08-temperature-baseline.md)
* [2023-08-18 pulse oximeter experimentation](2023-08-18-pulse-oximeter-experimentation.md)

### Measurement on 2023-08-22 around 2 PM (about 24 hours before the operation)

My temperature on the middle and right side was fine; it came in the
98 to 99 range. My temperature on the left side, however, came to 99.4
across multiple measurements.

On the pulse oximeter, my heart rate was within the 55-62 bpm range
most of the time, with occasional upward fluctuation to 65 and
occasional downward fluctuation to 51. My SpO2 was 97% most of the
time with the occasional downward fluctuation to 96%.

### Measurement on 2023-08-23 around 7:50 AM (morning of the operation)

This was after my bowel movement but before eating or doing any other
significant work for the day.

My temperature was around 98 degrees Faherenheit; different readings
of different parts of the forehead ranged from 97.4 to 98.9, but most
were between 97.7 and 98.2.

On the pulse oximeter, my heart rate was in the range of 44 to 49 bpm,
and my SpO2 showed as 99%. This is consistent with my previous
observations of lower heart rate and higher SpO2 in the morning.

### Measurement on 2023-08-23 around 2:15 PM (shortly after return home and gauze change)

My temperature readings were in the 98-99.5 degrees Fahrenheit range,
with a lot of variation that could be driven by measurement errors or
bodily fluctuations due to the ambient heat.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 was around 97% (as expected). My heart
rate initially showed up in the 57-65 bpm range, but then went up to
the 65-72 bpm range in a few minutes, then started coming down. All in
all, only mildly higher than usual.

### Measurement on 2023-08-23 around 3:05 PM (after second gauze change)

My temperature reading now came to 98 degrees, a little cooler than
the previous set of measurements. This might reflect me cooling down a
little bit after being indoors and applying the ice pack.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 was 97% with the occasional drop to
96%. My heart rate was initially in the 57-65 bpm range, with
occasional upward fluctuation to 66 bpm and occasional downward
fluctuation to 55 bpm.

### Measurement on 2023-08-23 around 5:05 PM

My temperature readings came in the range of 98.3 to 99 degrees; the
ambient indoor temperature had increased a bit as is typical due to
buildup of heat from a hot afternoon.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 was around 97%. My heart rate was
within my usual 57-65 bpm range.

### Measurement on 2023-08-23 around 8 PM

My temperature readings came to 97.8-97.9 degrees Fahrenheit. This was
despite me feeling hot and sweaty.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 started at 97% and dropped to 96%. My
heart rate was in the range of 50-55 bpm, with occasional upward
fluctuation to about 60 bpm. These readings are a little low compared
to what I generally see at this time of day. They might be a result of
my painkiller consumption or the relatively physically relaxed last
few hours making my body think it is night time.

### Measurement on 2023-08-24 morning around 8 AM about 15 minutes after waking up

My temperature readings were in the 97.6-98.4 degrees Fahrenheit
range.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 reading started at 98% and dropped to
97% toward the end. My heart rate was in the range of 44-55 bpm, with
one upward swing to 60 bpm.

Both readings are broadly consistent with my morning readings.

### Measurement on 2023-08-24 around 5:20 PM (shortly after post-meal wrap-up)

My forehead temperature readings were 96.5 and 97.6. However, the
region with a reading of 96.5 had just been cooled with an ice pack
(due to ambient heat) and the region with a reading of 97.6 was also
in the vicinity.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 came at 97%. My heart rate stabilized
in the range of 59-62 bpm.

### Measurement on 2023-08-25 around 8:15 AM

This measurement was taken shortly after waking up and completing a
bowel movement.

My temperature reading was in the range from 97.3 to 98.5 degrees
Fahrenheit.

On the pulse oximeter, my SpO2 started at 99% then dipped to 98%
briefly before returning to 99%. My heart rate was in the range of 49
to 55 bpm.

### Stopping further measurements unless something unusual happens

I'm stopping further measurements unless I feel unwell or unusual in
some ways.

## Appointment

### Arrival at office

I arrived at the office (Total Health Dental Care Rotunda Treatment
Center) shortly after 12:30 PM and finished the forms stuff a little
after 12:40 PM.

### Pre-operation discussion with doctor

Before the operation, I discussed with Dr. James Connors my previous
experience with the antibiotic. He said that the antibiotic is
optional, and that it's up to me whether to pick up the prescriptions
from the pharmacy, but he'll prescribe them anyway so that I have the
option of getting them from the pharmacy. As long as I don't pick them
up, I won't have to pay for them, and the pharmacy will eventually put
the pills back in their place so they won't go to waste.

He also felt that the pharmacy had made a mistake regarding not giving
me chlorhexidine.

### Confusion regarding laughing gas

There was some confusion regarding the administration of laughing
gas. The written note that the doctor had didn't say that laughing gas
was part of the procedure. I asked the doctor to double-check and to
administer the laughing gas to me. He ended up administering it and
later when I checked at the front desk they said that the laughing gas
was already paid for. It was good that I double-checked otherwise I
would have missed out on it.

### Procedure

The procedure began with the administration of a gel, after which the
local anesthetic was injected into the right side of my teeth. With
the laughing gas inhaler placed on my nose, I then had my wisdom teeth
extracted. The assisting doctor was a different one this time (female,
African-American). The procedure felt pretty similar to last time.

For my lower wisdom tooth, a mouth prop was used to get my mouth wide
open. However, the mouth prop wasn't wide enough for how wide I needed
to open my mouth for the wupper wisdom tooth. So I was asked to open
the mouth wider for that.

As with last time, I felt a lot of pressure/force but very little by
way of pain in the area, suggesting that the local anesthetic was
doing its job.

After the operation, the assisting doctor put a gauze pad in the area
and gave me a post-operative care package similar to last time's.

All the steps happened approximately between 1:20 PM and 1:40 PM.

### Return home

Unlike last time, I had no followup appointment to book, and also
nothing to pick up from the pharmacy, so I headed straight back home.

## Bleeding and gauze changes

### First gauze change after getting back home around 2:10 PM

After I got back home, changed clothes, unpacked stuff, etc. I did my
first gauze change around 2:10 PM.

* I unpacked the new gauzes and put them on the table for ready
  access.

* I removed the gauze pad that the doctor had put. It was soaked with
  blood.

* I then drooled out the accumulated blood and saliva. Based on
  learnings from last time, I was careful not to spit it out but just
  let it drool out. Also, since I was able to get back home earlier, I
  didn't have a lot of drool so it was not as messy as last time.

* I had a few sips of water, taking care to sip using my left side so
  that the glass didn't get the blood/saliva mix on my right side.

* Then I applied the new gauze pad and closed my mouth.

### Second gauze change around 3 PM

I did my second gauze change around 3 PM. I followed similar steps as
with my first gauze change (drooling instead of spitting, drinking
water from my left side in between gauze changes). I did still have a
decent amount of blood in my drool, so although it wasn't totally
clear if I was still bleeding, I decided to use the gauze pad at least
one more time and re-evaluate the situation more carefully at the next
gauze change.

### Gauze removal around 3:30 PM

Around 3:30 PM, I felt reasonably convinced that I was no longer
actively bleeding, and the additional blood picked up was just the
blood around the clot. So, I removed the gauze pad, drooled out, and
drank some water.

### Drool-out around 4:45 PM

Around 4:45 PM, I did another round of drooling out of my blood/saliva
mix.

### Final mini-drool around 5:30 PM before eating

I did a final mini-drool (mostly saliva, very little blood) around
5:30 PM, shortly before eating.

## Application of ice pack

My first application of the ice pack was from 2:15 PM to 2:30 PM,
after my return home from the operation and my first gauze change.

I then put it back in the freezer, then took it out again at 2:40 PM
for another round of application. I put it back in the freezer around
2:50 PM.

I took the ice pack out for the third time at 3:05 PM, shortly after
my second gauze change. I put it back in a little after 3:10 PM.

I took the ice pack out for a fourth time (this time after the gauze
removal) at around 3:40 PM.

I did a few more off-on iterations for the next 1.5 hours. The reason
for the shorter on periods than last time is the greater ambient heat
resulting in the pack not staying cold for too long.

I took a break from ice pack application to have my meal. I resumed
ice pack application at 8 PM, after finishing the meal and the
post-meal wrap-up.

## Consumption of medications

Medication | Total number | Number consumed | Suggested gap between consumptions | Last consumption
-- | -- | -- | -- | --
hydrocodone / acetaminophen | 4 | 1 | 6 hours | 2023-08-23 around 6:30 PM
ibuprofen 800 mg | 14 | 2 | 6 hours | 2023-08-24 around 4:30 PM

### First consumption with cool liquid food consumed the evening of the operation

I took the painkillers spaced apart by a few minutes, after about 30
minutes of having cool liquid foods (so around 1/3-1/2 of the meal was
done by the time I had the painkillers).

### Second consumption with soft solid food the afternoon/evening after the operation

I took ibuprofen only (no acetaminophen) along with my meal eaten
between 3:45 PM and 4:45 PM, with the ibuprofen taken around 4:30 PM.

## Food

### Cool liquid food for early dinner on 2023-08-23 from 5:45 PM to 7:15 PM

Unlike last time, I had food a bit earlier this time. This was partly
because I had had my morning meal earlier this time, and also partly
because this time I stopped the gauze sooner since I was more tuned to
when my bleeding had stopped. Also, I thought it'll be a good idea to
get a first dose of the painkillers a little earlier.

I had cool liquid foods for about 1.5 hours. I sipped very slowly,
barely opening my mouth. I had a mix of these:

* Vegan probiotic almond milk yogurt, including one already-opened
  pack from the fridge and one new pack from the freezer. I started
  with this as it was cooler and could help kick things off. I had not
  had yogurt last time, but decided to include it this time.

* Almond milk: I used this as filler to increase the volume on the
  yogurt.

* Miso ginger broth: I added a small amount of this with each bowl,
  less than last time, but still nontrivial).

* Tomato soup: I added a small amount of this, less than last time but
  just enough to give that red tinge to the mix. This provided the
  substance/umami.

### Cool liquid food on 2023-08-24 from 10:15 AM to 11:15 AM

For "breakfast" on 2023-08-24, I had another cool liquid food meal,
with similar ingredients as my cool liquid food meal of the previous
night.

I had my regular daily supplements with this meal, but none of the
pain medication.

### Soft solid food on 2023-08-24 from 3:45 PM to 4:45 PM

I had my first soft solid food meal on the afternoon of 2023-08-24
between 3:45 PM and 4:45 PM. The meal included rice, potatoes and
peas, and mixed vegetables, in addition to yogurt, almond milk, and
miso soup. Since I was having mixed vegetables, I did not include
tomato soup.

I enjoyed this meal, though I did have a slight soreness of throat for
a few minutes around the end of the meal. But it cleared quickly. It
might be due to the swallowing of some residual blood/saliva with the
meal.

### Soft solid food for the next few days; skipping detailed notes

I'm continuing to have soft solid food starting 2023-08-25 for the
next few days. This comprises rice, potatoes, peas, mixed vegetables
(tomatoes, eggplant, bell peppers, spinach), miso soup, almond milk,
and vegan probiotic yogurt (almond or coconut). I'll skip detailed
notes for each meal but will record when I transition to other food.

### Reintroduction of carrots on 2023-09-04

In the meal I cooked on 2023-09-04, I reintroduced carrots into the
mix. Carrots can sometimes be a bit hard, though they're very variable
depend on how well the particular carrot piece got cooked, hence I
avoided them for the first few days. However, I feel recovered enough
to handle carrots.

### Reintroduction of outside food (from Udupi Palace) and tortillas on 2023-09-06

On 2023-09-06, for the first time since the operation, I got takeout
from Udupi Palace. This was also the first day since the operation
that I bought (and started eating) tortillas.

### Reintroduction of walnuts on 2023-09-12

On 2023-09-12, I bought walnuts during a Trader Joe's trip, and
started eating them later in the day. I had been avoiding walnuts due
to their hard nature.

### Slight sore throat on 2023-09-12

On 2023-09-12, I felt a slight sore throat, which was likely due to a
combination of a lot of soup-y consumption, not enough water, and a
lot of outdoor exertion. I expect this to self-resolve but may need to
revert to a simpler diet if it doesn't resolve in a day or two.

EDIT: It did resolve and so no further action was needed.

### Reintroduction of sauerkraut on 2023-09-14

On 2023-09-14, in my first meal of the day, I had a little bit of
sauerkraut. I'm planning to resume sauerkraut, capped to a couple of
teaspoons in one meal per day (I might increase it a little bit after
that, though that cap makes sense in general as well).

As of now, the only food type that I stopped in light of the wisdom
tooth removal, and that I have *not* resumed, is red chutney. I'm
planning to continue to refrain from red chutney until my next regular
dental cleaning appointment.

## Sleep

### Sleep on night of 2023-08-23

I went to sleep on the night of 2023-08-23 at around 10:45 PM, about
3.5 hours after my cool liquid food meal. This contrasted with last
time, when I went to sleep around 1:30 AM, and had *two* cool liquid
food meals before going to sleep.

The earlier sleep time and reduced food need might reflect my greater
degree of relaxation and more continuous time at home. It might also
be a result of a longer cool liquid food meal that too the place of
two.

I slept mostly on my left side with occasional sleeping on my back or
in a hybrid position (back leaning left). My sleep position was fairly
comfortable and I felt well-rested through the night.

I started waking up a little after 7 AM and got out of bed at around
7:30 AM. My urine was a bit more colored than usual, which might
reflect my unusual diet, medication, or a bit of swallowed blood.

### Sleep on night of 2023-08-24

I went to sleep around 8:30 PM because I was feeling sleepy.

I woke up around 12:15 AM to urinate, then went back to sleep. Shortly
after this, I started sleeping on my right side, and from that point
onward I was freely toggling sides to sleep on.

I woke up for real at around 7:15 AM, after which I urinated, spent
some time on my computer, and then had a regular bowel movement.

## Exercise

### Resumption of some exercises on 2023-08-29

I resumed some exercises on 2023-08-29:

* I did the standing-on-one-leg exercise, twice standing on the right
  leg and once standing on the left leg. In all three cases, I was
  able to clear the 10-second mark.

* I did a few rounds with the hand gripper, two days ahead of the plan
  (I was planning to resume using the hand gripper on
  2023-08-31). However, I plan to not use the hand gripper any further
  on 2023-08-29, and restrict its use to one round per day for the
  next week. This is because the use of the hand gripper can cause
  tensing of my jaw which can intensity the pain the area with the
  wisdom teeth removed.

* I did a flexibility exercise (touching my hands from behind).

* I did a round of Buteyko breathing and was able to get a control
  pause of 26 seconds.

This was also the first day since the day of the operation that I left
my home, although it was only for laundry.

### Resumption of jogging on 2023-09-04

On Monday 2023-09-04, I went for jogging for the first time since the
wisdom tooth removal, and after 14 days of not jogging (my last
jogging trip was on 2023-08-20, three days before the operation). I
was able to jog the usual basic length but did not jog extra. It might
take me a few days to get back to my full energy level where I jog a
little extra.

This resumption of jogging is two days behind schedule (my original
plan was to resume alternate-day jogging on 2023-09-02 and regular
jogging on 2023-09-04).

### Resumption of daily jogging and alternate-day weights/pushups on 2023-09-06

After taking a break on 2023-09-05, I resumed daily jogging on
2023-09-06. This was also the first day after over two weeks that I
did weights and pushups. I was able to perform at just a little below
the level I was at before stopping, and I expect to get back to fully
normal over the coming week.

## Dental self-care

### First rinse and brushing on 2023-08-24 around 3:30 PM

On 2023-08-24 around 3:30 PM, about 26 hours after the operation and
shortly before my first post-operation soft solid food meal, I took a
few steps:

* I did a saltwater rinse, being careful to swirl the saltwater gently
  throughout my mouth and then spit it very gently.

* I washed my glass so as to get a fresh start and get rid of
  accumulated stuff from unbrushed consumption of cool liquid food.

* I gently brushed my teeth, without opening my mouth too much, and
  focusing on the left side and the left half of the right side. The
  goal was to feel fresh before starting the consumption of my meal.

### Gentle flossing and rinsing on 2023-08-24 around 5 PM

Around 5 PM, after consuming my first post-operation soft solid food
meal, I took my usual post-meal dental self-care steps:

* I flossed, albeit using an interdental brush rather than a floss
  pick since it requires less wide opening of the mouth and is less
  likely to injure or put extreme force on the mouth. I skipped the
  2-3 right-most teeth.

* I did a saltwater rinse, being gentle with the swirling and the
  post-swirl spit.

### Brushing my teeth (a little more completely) around 7:30 PM

Around 7:30 PM, I brushed my teeth. This time, I brushed with a
slightly more open mouth and went to the right side, still staying a
couple of teeth away from the extraction site.

### Resumption of normal dental self-care starting 2023-08-25

Starting the morning on 2023-08-25, I resumed normal dental self-care,
with additional care brushing and flossing around the affected area,
and care to not spit or rinse too vigorously.

## Physical environment and stimulation

### Physical movement

For the most part, since my return on 2023-08-23 at 2 PM, I stayed
seated on my chair and working on the table using my laptop. For the
first few hours, the exceptions were bathroom breaks, gauze changes,
trips to take the ice pack in or out of the freezer. For my meal, I
needed to do a few additional back-and-forth walks to get food out of
the fridge, and after the meal to put it back in the fridge and wash
my dishware. I was able to stick to a mostly similar routine the next
day (2023-08-24).

All in all, I was able to keep physical movement to a
minimum, and it was smooth with no jerkiness and low injury risk.

This is a sharp contrast to last time, when I made multiple pharmacy
trips (three!) and spent a long time waiting in line at the pharmacy
for the first two trips.

### Light

After returning home, I've stayed indoors with curtains drawn, and
(for the most part) without having turned on the lights. Therefore,
I'm keeping light stimulation to a minimum. Most of the stuff I do on
the computer is in dark mode and my illumination is relatively low. In
the past, dental issues have correlated with light sensitivity (see
[2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md](2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md))
so following my general process of keeping light stimulation to a
minimum is good.

This is better than last time, when I had to make multiple pharmacy
trips, exposing myself to sunlight, store light at the pharmacy,
etc. Also, since I went to sleep at 10:45 PM rather than having a
late-night meal that required turning the light on, I was spared from
late-night light stimulation.

### Sound and visual motion stimulus

I did not watch any videos or listen to any music until my meal time
at 5:45 PM. During my meal time, I watched my usual TV show (with
Hulu) on my laptop, at a moderate volume and moderate
illumination. The show I watched, *This Is Us*, is a relatively
feel-good show without a lot of loud noises or sudden movements.

After 8 PM I resumed watching "This Is Us" on the side while working,
and stopped a little after 10 PM, shortly before going to sleep.

The next day I continued watching "This Is Us" and also consumed some
other video and music content. Things were back to normal albeit
nothing at too high a volume/

This is better than last time, when my multiple pharmacy trips meant
more stimulation.

### Need to talk

I was able to get away with talking very little after the procedure. I
had to talk a little bit at the facility after the operation and
before leaving, but because I knew most of what would happen, I could
get most of my talking done *before* the procedure.

After getting back home around 2 PM, I didn't need to talk for the
rest of the day, as I had no outside trips and no phone calls or
meetings.

The next day, I participated a little bit in a casual meeting of
teammates. In the meeting of about an hour, my effective talking time
was around 10-15 minutes. I had no other need to talk during the day.

This is in sharp contrast with last time, where I had to talk more
after the procedure to get the post-operative care instructions and
book my appointment, then I had to talk at the pharmacy. And it was
painful to talk with a gauze in my mouth, so I had to resort to some
mix of uttering words and using sign language.

### Temperature

This is one respect in which the choice of date was unfortunate. This
day was relatively hot by Berkeley standards, with the outdoor
temperature about 80 degrees Fahrenheit (28 degrees Celsius) when I
went for the appointment, and climbing to 85 degrees (30 degrees
Celsius) later in the evening. The indoor temperature is generally a
few degrees higher than the average outdoor temperature of the past
few hours, so it was also pretty hot indoors. Fortunately, despite the
heat, at least I was indoors so didn't get heat from sunlight
exposire. I did a few rounds with a moist towel to keep myself mostly
cool.

This is one respect where things weren't clearly better than last
time: though the outdoor trips last time were fatiguing, the
temperature not being too high last time was a blessing.

## Overall retrospective

### Trajectory of pain

The pain came and went for the first few days. It didn't go down
monotonically day after day; there were some days with a bit more pain
than the previous day. The pain in the area had gone down to not being
noticeable by around 2023-09-01 (nine days after the operation).

### Not using the antibiotic seems to have worked well; there were no digestive issues

I had no digestive issues. It looks like not using the antibiotic
worked well (I did still take a few doses of the pain medication,
though it was less than before, but based on my understanding the
antibiotic was the likely culprit).

I had the subjective sense of slightly more inflammation in the area
than last time, and this could be chance, or a result of not using the
antibiotic, or a result of not using painkillers that masked some of
the pain. Regardless, I was still very much net positive.

### The effect of taking less pain medication is less clear, but I feel it led to slightly better decisionmaking

This is very much conjectural and could be false: I think that by
taking fewer doses of pain medication, I experienced my pain and
fatigue more clearly. This in turn may have led me to more accurately
assessing how much effort I could put in, leading me to not
overstretch myself, which ultimately helped my recovery.

However, it's also the case that I set clearer and more relaxed plans
for my recovery trajectory, and these plans might have helped too.

### Learning from the left side experience was helpful in several ways

The biggest help was the day of the operation: when I got back, I
didn't make trips to Walgreens, which means I could be at home
resting. This subjectively helped a lot with recovery.

Other little things included:

* By returning home earlier, I was able to do my first gauze change
  earlier, which matters a lot.

* I had internalized the maxim to drool, not spit or rinse, which
  helped during the first few gauze changes.

* I retired the use of gauze pads earlier, based on the learning from
  last time and reading after that. This led to less pain and easier
  recovery.

* I had my first liquid food meal a little earlier, which helped with
  my energy recovery.

* Rather than staying up late and having a second meal, I was able to
  sleep earlier. Last time, I stayed up late partly because of being
  more amped up after the outdoor trip, and partly because I was
  afraid of injury if I slept with improper posture. However, this
  time I paid more importance to sleeping sooner and getting rest, and
  it worked well.

* By stocking up on rice and vegan yogurt, I had more variety than
  just potatoes + cool liquid foods. This allowed me to get to a
  normal-ish diet sooner, while also still postponing stuff like
  tortillas, carrots, and outside food.

* I set clearer plans for when to phase various things in; these were
  less ambitious than before but still reasonable given my goals.
