# 2023-10-28: standing on one leg with eyes closed

I've been doing exercises involving standing on one leg with eyes
closed for a while, but on 2023-10-29 (and starting with
information/practices that I started collecting 2023-10-28) I've
decided to flesh out the practice and some variants of it.

## Standing on one leg with eyes closed: standard version

### Single iteration standard version, specific leg

The standard version of the exercise is as follows:

* Lift and fold one leg with my eyes open, facing my laptop

* Wait a few seconds to stabilize

* When the seconds counter on my laptop hits a multiple of 5, close my
  eyes, mentally noting the start time

* Try to stay balanced for as long as possible until I get fatigued or
  lose my balance

* When opening my eyes, immediately note the end time and calculate
  the difference

### Full iteration standard version, single leg

As of 2023-10-28, if at my first try I stay for 12 seconds or more,
then I consider it a success and don't retry that leg.

If I don't clear 12 seconds on my first attempt, I continue to do
attempts (total odd number of attempts) until the median is 12 seconds
or more. I try up to 7 attempts (so I could stop at 3, 5, or 7 attempts).

### Full retry

If I fail the full iteration, i.e., even after 7 attempts, I do not
have a median of 12 seconds or higher, this is likely due to temporary
stability issues. The most common reason is sleepy or trembling legs;
this could be due to ambient cold temperatures or having been seated
too long.

In such a case, I should stand for up to two minutes (i.e., either a
full two minutes or however long I can stand) on the same leg where
I've failed. After success with that, I should again retry the full
iteration. (This retry might succeed at the first try if I exceed 12
seconds on that try, in which case I don't need to retry).

### Overall exercise: both legs

For the overall exercise, I do the above for one leg, then after
completion I do it for the other leg.

### Triggers for overall exercise

I should do the overall exercise once before going out jogging, and
once after coming back from jogging (and before any strength
exercises). If I'm doing strength exercises without having gone
jogging, I should make sure to do the overall exercise before strength
exercise.

On days where I cannot go jogging and am not doing strength exercises
due to fatigue, sickness, time constraints, or weather, I should
consider doing the standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercise if
I'm feeling minimally healthy enough and the time constraints are not
super-severe.

I might also discretionarily do the
standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed at other times of the day.

## Standing on one leg with eyes open: standard version

I already mentioned standing on one leg with eyes open as an exercise
I might do if I am not able to clear the threshold for standing on one
leg with eyes closed. However, separate from that, I should also do
the exercise of standing on one leg with eyes open (for two minutes or
however long I can maintain my balance) once a week, once for each
leg. Since this is a somewhat time-consuming exercise, I should
generally do it on a weekend day; it generally makes sense to do
before strength exercises, so I should do it on the weekend day that
I'm doing strength exercises.
