# 2023-08-04: sauerkraut, red chutney, and sore throat

## 2023-08-04

### Initial symptoms

On the morning of 2023-08-04, I woke up with a slight sore throat. I
believe the cause is that the previous day (2023-08-03) I had consumed
both a decent amount of the red chutney that comes with spinach masala
dosa (left over from a previous trip since I don't consume it along
with the spinach masala dosa itself but on a separate day) and also
sauerkraut. Unlike my normal practice of limiting my sauerkraut
consumption to only one meal a day, I had on 2023-08-03 consumed
sauerkraut in both meals and consumed red chutney with one meal.

My recovery plan is to refrain from sauerkraut and red chutney for at
least three days, and at least two days *after* my sore throat seems
gone. [EDIT: After some further thought I've decided to refrain from
both of these until at least the time of the right side wisdom tooth
removal, currently scheduled 2023-08-16, even if I am fully cured by
then, so as to prevent a recurrence.]

NOTE: This incident has some similarities to a [similar incident in
2021](2021-02-27-sauerkraut-and-sore-throat.md). Unlike that past
incident, the total amount of aggravating stuff was less this time,
and so I also expect the recovery to be faster. I think one reason to
experience this despite the lower amount of aggravating stuff could be
that I am still experiencing some of the vestigial aftereffects of the
antibiotic-induced digestive issues after the wisdom tooth removal.

### Actions during the day

I went for a jog as usual in the morning.

In the evening, when I went to Trader Joe's, I did *not* make my usual
companion trip to Udupi Palace for spinach masala dosa
purchase. That's because I expect that the sambhar and other
ingredients there might be aggravating.

However, the items I purchased at Trader Joe's were not adjusted for
sore throat. In particular, I got my usual items including
tomatoes. That's because I was forecasting that the sore throat would
be fixed in a couple of days.

## 2023-08-05

### Actions during the day

Since my sore throat was still about as bad as the previous day, I
decided to take further actions. However, perhaps unwisely, I still
chose to go jogging in the morning.

Since I was cutting out sauerkraut while still not fully built back in
terms of probiotics, I made a trip to Berkeley Bowl (after my jogging
trip) to stock up on priobitic vegan yogurts. I also got some
additional rice. I expect this trip might save me a trip next week
ahead of the wisdom tooth removal operation.

I then did potatoes prep and rice prep. I held off on regular mixed
vegetables prep for a while since the full range of mixed vegetables
might not be a good fit for me (in particular, tomatoes might be a bad
idea given the sore throat, so I want to wait a couple of days to see
the recovery trajectory before deciding whether or not to include
tomatoes).

Unfortunately, I had a number of personal chores to finish, that kept
me up and about. Some of these were directly caused or influenced by
not feeling well, including the Berkeley Bowl trip, the potatoes prep,
and the rice prep. Some were necessary tasks that just so happened to
be scheduled for that day, including regular laundry. And then there
was house cleaning, that I had started the previous day and wanted to
continue for various administrative reasons.

By the evening, I also had a somewhat runny nose along with the sore
throat, so I started using tissues much more heavily than usual. I
also noticed that i urinated quite frequently in the evening, with
frequent urination starting around the same time as the runny nose. It
looks like my body was trying to get rid of something.

Throughout the day my temperature stayed normal, at around 98 degrees
Fahrenheit.

### Actions at night

At night, I kept the trash can near my bed so that I could blow my
nose if needed at night and throw the tissues in the trash can.

I had a relatively good sleep. I did get up once at night, blew my
nose, and urinated. But then I went back to a sound sleep.

### Possibility of a cold rather than irritants?

While my leading possibility is still that the food irritation is what
caused the sore throat and subsequent runny nose, there is a
posibility that this is a common cold. I don't think that's the case,
because I have not met anybody in the four days prior to the start of
symptoms, even before that my contact was minimal, and the symptoms
started with a sore throat and only later went on to runny
nose. However, I can't rule out the possibility that this is a
cold. Either way, I expect to be fully recovered in about a week.

## 2023-08-06

### Actions during the day

I woke up around 9:40 AM, after being semi-awake in bed for about 20
minutes. I decided not to go out jogging today, as I seemed to still
have a runny nose. Fortunately I didn't have much by way of personal
chores on this day so I was able to stay mostly sedentary and overall
had a more relaxed day.

I continued to have a moderately runny nose through the day, but my
productivity was otherwise close to normal (other than my skipping of
exercise). I went to sleep shortly before midnight.

### Actions at night

I woke up once in the middle of the night to blow my nose but
otherwise had a good sleep.

## 2023-08-07

### Actions during the day

I woke up a little before 8 AM. I might have chosen to sleep in more,
but I know that I needed to get up soon for a meeting at 9:15 AM so I
decided to get up rather than go back to sleep and be woken abruptly
by the alarm.

My nose was less runny than the previous two days, but I did have a
few incidents of coughing. I was in three meetings, two of which were
multi-person meetings that required a few minutes of intermittent
talking on my part and the third was a two-person meeting for about 20
minutes and I was talking for about half the time. While I was able to
handle the talking portions reasonably okay, I did end up coughing
toward the end of my talking segments in some cases.

In the evening, and at night as I was heading to bed, I felt an urge
to incessantly clear my throat. I also blew my nose and sneezed a few
times.

### Actions at night

I went to bed around 11 PM. I got up within an hour of going to bed
and blew my nose; I had not fully fallen asleep by then. I then went
to sleep and had a reasonably peaceful sleep.

## 2023-08-08

### Actions during the day

I got up around 9:15 AM when I was ready to start my day.

My nose continued to get less runny, but I did have sporadic instances
of coughing throughout the day.

I had two meetings that were about an hour long each, and where I was
talking for about 50% of the time in both. I was able to handle both
without tiring or coughing; however, after the first meeting ended I
did have a bit of a bout of coughing.

Overall, I felt better on this day than I have felt since Saturday,
though probably a little worse than Friday. This suggests that if the
getting-sicker and recovery are symmetric, I am within a couple of
days of recovery.

### Actions at night

I went to sleep around midnight. Unlike the last few days, I slept
through without needing to blow my nose even after I got up (around
8:40 AM).

## 2023-08-09

### Actions during the day

My waking-up experience around 8:40 AM was more like the waking-up
experience of a fully recovered person, but I still had a slight sore
throat. For instance, I had full stool pressure, unlike the last
couple of days when my stool pressure and volume was lower. I suspect
this means that my overnight energy was spent on normal bodily
processing rather than being diverted into fixing my condition.
