# 2023-07-05 wisdom tooth removal (left side)

This document describes the process of wisdom tooth removal for my
left side. For more general context on the wisdom tooth removal
procedure, see
[2023-wisdom-tooth-removal.md](2023-wisdom-tooth-removal.md).

## Temperature readings

Date and time | Significance | Temperature reading
-- | -- | --
2023-07-05 12 PM | Right before leaving for operation | 98.2
2023-07-05 6:30 PM | After finishing all trips for the day | Three readings: 98.2, 97.8, 98.0

## Arrival at office

I took BART from Ashby to 19th Street Oakland and then walked over to
the Rotunda Treatment Center, where I arrived around 12:25 PM. I then
filled in various intake forms and was done around 12:35 PM, after
which I sat down and waited. I kept my eyes closed and relaxed for
most of my waiting time though I did check email and Slack quickly. I
switched my phone to a Do Not Disturb mode at 12:50 PM.

## X-rays

I was called in at 1:01 PM by a female doctor for dental X-rays, which
I completed. After that, I went to the operation area and lay down on
the dentist's chair.

## Operation process

### Explanation

Soon, [Dr. James
Connors](https://totalhealthdentalcare.com/james-connors), the lead
doctor for the surgery, arrived. He confirmed that I'll be getting my
left side teeth removed and that I've opted in to laughing gas and
local anesthesia.

He said I should expect a day of bleeding, a week of pain, and a month
of healing.

He also said that my teeth weren't impacted so this is expected to be
a straightforward process and should take under 10 minutes.

### Laughing gas

Dr. Connors and the female doctor who had taken my X-ray then
proceeded to fit the nasal mask on me for laughing gas
administration. They also put a little bit of gel on my lower and
upper left area of my gumline. They left me alone with it for a while.

The female doctor checked in after a few minutes and Dr. Connors
checked in again after about 5 minutes. Everything seemed fine.

### Local anesthesia

The doctors then injected the local anesthesia into the lower and
upper left area of my gumline. Again, they left me for a little while
after that for the anesthesia to take effect.

After they came back, they checked again how things were going. I
noticed some numbness in my right hand and foot, and I wasn't sure if
this is due to the laughing gas or the local anesthesia. Dr. Connors
suspected it's the laughing gas, and that it should subside after I'm
taken off of it.

### Actual removal

After they were confident that the local anesthesia had taken effect,
they topped it a little bit and then proceeded with the wisdom tooth
extraction.

To begin with, Dr. Connors gave me a mouth prop that he installed
between the teeth on my right side in order to prop my mouth wide
open, to make it easier for them to extract.

Then they began the extraction. I closed my eyes for the actual
procedure. I didn't experience pain in the dental area itself; the
main unpleasant sensation was the sensation of significant physical
force during the extraction process. The extractions themselves
happened quickly.

### Gauze application

After the removal, I was taken off of the laughing gas. The female
doctor applied gauze in the area and gave me post-operation
instructions as well as some additional gauze, a syringe, and a cold
pack. She also provided some verbal clarifications around the
instructions.

## Exit process

After I left the operating room, I sat down in the waiting area so I
could review the instructions to see if I had any further questions.

### Booking of followup appointment

I booked a followup appointment for Wednesday August 16 at 1 PM. The
followup appointment was somewhat cheaper as there was no need for the
X-ray step that had been completed in this appointment.

I also got confirmation that the additional medication had been sent
to the Walgreens (at Adeline Street) and checked that the office is
open till 4:40 PM in case there's some issue with the medication.

I finally exited the office around 1:54 PM.

## Walgreens trip

### Initial trip

I arrived at the Walgreens a little after 2:15 PM. The pharmacy was
temporarily closed, so I waited in line for it to open. When my turn
came, the person at the counter said that my order has been received
but has not yet been prepared because they're a little behind. He
asked me to come in an hour (around 3:30 PM).

### Second trip

I made my second trip to Walgreens shortly after 3:30
PM. Unfortunately there was a long line at the Walgreens so I stood
there for a long time. I got three of the four prescriptions. The
prescriptions I received were as follows:

* Hydrocodone / acetaminophen: 10 tablets with the instruction to
  "take 1 tablet by mouth every 6 hours as needed for pain"

* Ibuprofen 800 mg: 20 tablets with the instruction to "take 1 tablet
  by mouth every 6 hours as needed for pain"

* Clindamycin 300 mg: 28 tablets with the instruction to "take 1
  capsule by mouth four times daily for 7 days"

The fourth prescription was marked pending as a
confirmation/clarification was needed from the prescribing doctor.

## Bleeding and gauze changes

### Bleeding prior to my return home

Shortly before arriving at the Walgreens for the first trip (coming
straight from the Rotunda Treatment Center), I experienced a bit of
drooling. I wiped the drool off with a tissue, then masked up before
entering the Walgreens. While in line at the Walgreens, I experienced
more drooling; this time the drooling was harder to control and it
just landed inside my mask. It didn't feel too bad or painful (my
local anesthesia had still not worn off) but when I exited the
Walgreens and took off my mask, I saw blood on the nose bridge. I also
saw bloody saliva dripping down my neck and a bit of it on my
sweatshirt. I masked up again to prevent blood falling around, then
got back home.

### Gauze changes at home

By the time I got a chance to change my gauze, it was about 2:45 PM,
it had been about an hour since my first gauze (as applied in the
operating room) and I hadn't had a chance to change because I had not
gotten back home. I hastily unpacked the gauzes provided and switched
my gauze. In my haste, I did not read/remember the instructions
carefully so I also spat out some blood beyond just drooling it out.

I then did two more changes of gauze over the nezt 45 minutes: At
around 3:30 PM, I was on my fourth gauze when I headed out. By this
time I was getting the hang of it, drool out and clear the excess
blood/saliva but try to not spit because the force of spitting can get
in the way of blood clot formation.

I had to throw out the mask I had used for my first trip, since it was
bloody and messy. So I used a new mask.

By around the time of my departure, of 3:30 PM, the anesthetic
appeared to have worn off fully, at least in the sense that I was no
longer feeling numb.

### Return from second Walgreens trip

When I came back from my second Walgreens trip around 4:45 PM, I found
that the mask had only a slight stain, so I kept it around for further
trips over the next day or two, though I expect to throw this one out
after that as well.

I then changed my gauze again, so I was now on my fifth gauze. But
upon doing so I noticed that the pack that the Rotunda Treatment
Center gave me had only one additional gauze left.

### Third Walgreens trip to stock up on more gauze

In panic about what might happen if I used up all my gauzes and the
bleeding still hadn't stopped, I made another trip to Walgreens to buy
more gauze. This time my trip wasn't to the pharmacy but the regular
counter, so it was much quicker.

## Consumption of medications

### Pain medications on 2023-07-05 5 PM

On 2023-07-05 around 5 PM, I had, along with water:

* 1 tablet of hydrocodone / acetaminophen

* 1 tablet of ibuprofen 800 mg

I did not have the clindamycin just yet, as I wanted to have it once I
was home for a more extended period of time, and possibly along with
some food to replenish myself.

## Communication challenges

I had difficulty talking while the gauze was still in my mouth, which
was the case for my three Walgreens trips. I used hand gestures,
nodding and shaking, and brief verbal statements to communicate my
intent.
