# 2023-07-30: Buteyko breathing

At the suggestion of my friend Issa Rice, who in turn had heard about
it from Mark Lippmann, suggested I try some Buteyko breathing
measurements and exercises and report my results to him. With his
permission, I'm sharing my results more broadly here, for ease of
reference for future me.

## Control pause measurement from Howard Cooper

I tried the [control pause measurement as suggested by Howard
Cooper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XliOGg8Tl98&t=593s) at Issa's
suggestion. Or more specifically, I tried to first measure my control
pause: the duation for which I can comfortably hold my breath by
pinching my nose. In Cooper's language, "how long till you get a
definite urge to breathe". Howard Cooper also suggested doing multiple
iterations of holding the nose for *half* the control pause (the
duration just measured), after identifying the measured duration.

I wasn't exactly sure of the criterion for "definite urge to breathe",
but the physiological sense I got when I stopped was that my nostrils
were pushing at the fingers I was using to hold my nose. After 2-3
seconds of continuous pushing, I released my nose.

The measurements I got were in the range of 20 to 28 seconds.

After doing the exercise, I also watched the rest of the video
(including the earlier portion).

## Many small breath holds exercise from Neil Tranter

Also at Issa's suggestion, I tried the [guided many small breath holds
exercise by Neil
Tranter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wjZL0llp5Ac&t=388s). This
involves multiple iterations of holding the nose (for about 3-5
seconds) and regular breathing (for about 15-20 seconds). I did the
exercise along with the video, and did not need any rescue breaths. I
probably held my nose a little bit longer than the guidance in the
exercise due to some delay in responding.

Note that Tranter's suggested exercise is similar to Cooper's
suggested exercise, except that the duration for holding the nose is
set to 3-5 seconds rather than using half of the control
pause. However, whereas in the Cooper video I was focused primarily on
the control pause measurement, in the Tranter case I was focused on
execution of the actual exercise.

After doing the exercise, I also watched the rest of the video
(including the earlier portion).

## Other related reading and watching

Some other videos I watched in relation to Buteyko breathing include:

* [Help me overcome air hunger - "I can't stop focusing on my
  breathing"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RLMjvDYJL6Q) (a followup
  video by Howard Cooper to the one I had already watched)

* [How Do I Achieve a Higher Control Pause?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XvVzx9Msr1M)

* [Unblock Nose in Five Minutes - Buteyko Breathing Method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tgmKIwUqhkg)

* [When You Think Buteyko Won't Work For You, by Breathing Center](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oi1tvp7Mghs)
