# 2023-09-19 onward air quality issues

On Tuesday 2023-09-19, starting around noon, the San Francisco Bay
Area (including Berkeley, where I live) experienced a marked worsening
of air quality. The air quality issues seem to be due to smoke from
fires in Northern California and Oregon, and the forecast is that they
are to last Tuesday 2023-09-19 and Wednesday 2023-09-20. References:

* [Air District issues air quality advisory through Wednesday](https://www.baaqmd.gov/news-and-events/page-resources/2023-news/091923-aq-advisory)
* [Alameda County Air Quality Advisory](https://member.everbridge.net/453003085612570/notif/0uOOSJOtn)

See [here](2023-09-19-and-2023-09-20-aqi.png) for the recorded hourly
AQI values by IQAIr for Berkeley;
[source](https://www.iqair.com/us/usa/california/berkeley). It looks
like the South Bay was more adversely affected in terms of air
quality.

## 2023-09-19 morning: weather forecast check and run

On the morning of 2023-09-19, between 10 AM and 11 AM, I went for my
jog. It was somewhat shorter than usual due to time constraints. Prior
to going for my jog, I had checked the hourly weather forecast on The
Weather Channel for the next few hours, and had not seen any air
quality warnings. I'd also checked the weather forecast the previous
night, and had not seen any air quality warnings.

It looks like The Weather Channel does note the air quality issues on
the main weather page (it says "SMOKE" in the case of Berkeley) but
not on the hourly forecast page. Something similar is true for Weather
Underground, though they're a bit better on their main weather page in
terms of providing an estimated AQI.

My impression is that if the air quality issues were significant, The
Weather Channel would have been noted as a banner on the hourly
forecast page as well (for instance, for rain, a notification about
potential for rain is included at the top of the hourly forecast page
if there's any time in the next 6 hours or so where the probability of
rain exceeds 25%; I imagine there are similar thresholds in place for
air quality. In any case, there were no air quality issues during my
actual outdoor trip.

## 2023-09-19 afternoon: the air quality starts worsening and I don't notice

Starting a little after noon on Tuesday 2023-09-19, the outdoor air
quality started worsening. I didn't notice anything, which could be
because I was indoors and the air exchange rate isn't that
high. Although I have an open window, I have both a screen and drawn
curtains which might reduce the amount of air flow and might further
reduce the flow of pollutants. There may also be subtle microclimate
differences in the level of air pollution even within Berkeley.

According to the data from IQAIr, the outdoor air quality reached its
worst around 5 PM in the evening, with the AQI reaching 171.

## 2023-09-19 evening: notification received by me from AC Alert

At 6:11 PM on 2023-09-19, Alameda County sent an air quality alert
advisory over email (also available online
[here](https://member.everbridge.net/453003085612570/notif/0uOOSJOtn)). I
read this in my email about two hours later (a little after 8 PM). As
noted earlier, despite checking The Weather Channel for forecasts, I
had not discovered this issue.

I was a bit conflicted on what to do, considering that my window had
already been open for a while, and the peak of bad air quality was
past us. The AQI at the time was around 116. The forecast for next-day
air quality was decent (50-80 AQI). I could not make out a difference
between the indoor air quality and air quality near the window. So I
decided to let the window stay open.

In retrospect, this was probably a bad decision (largely because the
AQI forecast was incorrect?).

## 2023-09-20 morning: air quality continues being bad, further precautions

On the morning of 2023-09-20, I saw that the air quality was still
bad; in fact, the AQI was now a little over 120, worse than it had
been the previous night when I had received the notification.

I also noticed that I was feeling a little on the lower end of my
health, though within the general range that I would consider
normal. This included slightly poorer digestion, more frequent
urination, and a little more fatigue.

I noticed that after some care, I could identify the air quality as
being a bit worse near the window than inside.

So, I made the following changes:

* I skipped my morning jog as well as deferred to a future date my
  planned outside trip for later in the day.

* I also skipped indoor exercise (weights/pushups), as this would
  require me to breathe more heavily.

* After I was done eating and drinking water, I wore a KN95 mask while
  doing desk work. I experienced a sense of relief/improvement after
  wearing the mask, suggesting that the air quality was indeed
  weighing me down.

## 2023-09-21 and 2023-09-22: continued precautions

On both 2023-09-21 and 2023-09-22, I continued keeping the windows
closed and wearing the KN95 mask for large parts of the day as a
precautionary measure.

I stopped using the mask around the afternoon of 2023-09-22, after it
seemed like the indoor air quality was decent and the costs of mask
fatigue seemed to exceed any benefits of protection.

Outdoor AQI started to improve on Friday evening, with the Berkeley
average dropping below 100 consistently over several hours.

## 2023-09-23: window reopened

On the morning of 2023-09-23, after over 12 hours with the AQI being
below 100, I reopened a window. I continued to not go for my morning
jog for now.
