# 2023-09-27 dental cleaning

This is a regular dental cleaning appointment at Total Health Dental
Care at 3017 Telegraph Avenue, scheduled for 2023-09-27 at 1 PM. The
previous dental cleaning appointment was on
[2022-12-21](2022-12-21-dental-cleaning.md); however, in the interim I
had my wisdom teeth removed ([overall
details](2023-wisdom-tooth-removal.md), [left
side](2023-07-05-wisdom-tooth-removal-left-side.md), and [right
side](2023-08-23-wisdom-tooth-removal-right-side.md)).

Sections of this document:

* [Prior preparation and review on 2023-09-24](#prior-preparation-and-review-on-2023-09-24)
* [Appointment](#appointment)
* [Further actions](#further-actions)

## Prior preparation and review on 2023-09-24

### Documentation of recent gum pain and possible minor mouth ulcer

I documented an incident of recent gum pain and possible minor mouth
ulcer [here](2023-09-22-upper-right-wisdom-tooth-gum-area-pain.md). I
did this prior to writing this planning doc, because I expect that
there's some overlap in the considerations arising from both docs.

### Experience based on past appointments

Historically for me, regular dental cleanings have not required any
post-operative care, since they do only a surface-level
cleaning. Occasionally, there's a bit of temporary pain; however, the
pain stops once the relevant cleaning has been done. There has been no
need for dietary restrictions in the immediate aftermath of the
appointment. Overall, my experience has been that my teeth feel
"lighter" and "cleaner" after the procedure, and therefore more able
to eat spicy or sour foods.

However, there's still some chance that the process might cause
temporary injury to my gums or other areas of my mouth, so it'll be
good to be prepared for slight pain and incapacitation for the 2-3
days after the appointment.

### Medical stuff

I already have stocks of over-the-counter acetaminophen and ibuprofen,
so in the (very unlikely) event of excessive pain, I can make use of
these.

### Food plans

#### Food purchase trips

It so happened that the [Berkeley air quality
issues](2023-09-19-onward-air-quality-issues.md) hit the week prior,
so as of 2023-09-24, I am very low on food stocks in general, and
likely need multiple trips to get back to a reasonable amount of
excess stock. My current plan is as follows:

* 2023-09-24: One trip to Trader Joe's to get basic stocks
* 2023-09-24: One trip to Berkeley Bowl to stock up on vegan probiotic
  yogurt as well as backup rice (since I used up my backup rice due to
  not going out for a while)
* 2023-09-26: Second trip to Trader Joe's to get additional stocks

#### Food consumption guidance prior to procedure

These are my current thoughts on foods to avoid:

* **No nuts consumption after Sunday September 24**: Nuts have some
  likelihood of causing bite-down injuries, which may make the dental
  cleaning process more painful, so I will skip nuts consumption after
  Sunday September 24.

* **No outside food consumption after Sunday September 24**: As
  outside food poses slightly more risk, I want to not have outside
  food after the planned Udupi Palace takeout on Sunday September 24.

* **No sauerkraut consumption after Sunday September 24** (and
  therefore effectively after ~September 17): As sauerkraut is a bit
  acidic and can cause a sore throat, and I've had issues with it in
  the past, I will stop consuming sauerkraut after September 24. In
  fact since my sauerkraut ran out around September 17 (I don't have
  the exact date) and I haven't consumed it since then, I will have a
  long period with sauerkraut consumption.

These are my thoughts on foods to add in:

* **Vegan probiotic yogurts**: I will resume having vegan probiotic
  yogurts prior to the operation to replace sauerkraut for the
  probiotic benefits. I might have a little extra since I've not had
  sauerkraut for over a week due to finishing it and not going out to
  shop due to the air quality issues, so might be a bit low on
  probiotics anyway.

These are my thoughts on timing:

* **Finish second meals by 8 PM every day starting Saturday September
  23**: This is to keep my digestion in good shape.

  How did I do? I was able to adhere to this!

* **Go to sleep by 11:30 PM every day starting Sunday September 24**:
  This is to promote early sleep/waking and reduce the risk of
  digestive cycle issues on the day of the procedure. My sleep cycle
  was a bit off for the past few days due to staying up late one day
  for a lot of document sorting, so it's important to reset my sleep
  cycle.

  How did I do? I was approximately on time on Sunday September 24 (I
  think I went to sleep just a little after 11:30 PM) and
  significantly delayed on Monday September 25 (I went to sleep around
  2:15 AM on Tuesday). The reason for the delay on Monday was the
  delay related to doing laundry and finishing a work-related task.
  
* **Finish first meal by 11:30 AM on Tuesday September 26**: This will
  make sure my meal cycle is not too far off by the date of the
  appointment (Wednesday).

  How did I do? I couldn't adhere to this. The reason was that I
  wanted to do a grocery trip and given the temperature forecast, it
  made sense to do the grocery trip in the morning rather than in the
  afternoon when it would be hotter. Unfortunately this meant delaying
  my meal, because I also got up a bit late, thanks to having slept
  late the previous day.

#### Meal prep prior to procedure

* I should make sure I'm well-stocked on mixed vegetables prior to the
  procedure.

* I should also make sure I'm well-stocked on cooked potatoes so I can
  resume them as soon as I can have soft solid food.

* I should also make sure I'm well-stocked on cooked peas so I can
  resume them as soon as I can have soft solid food.

#### Food consumption guidance after procedure

The details depend on how my teeth feel after the procedure. I should
be prepared (in terms of food stocks and prepped food) for continuing
to avoid nuts, sauerkraut, and outside food for 2-3 days after the
procedure.

### Sleep plans

As mentioned above, I aim to sleep by 11:30 PM every day starting
Sunday September 24. The goal is to reset my sleep cycle that is a bit
off after staying up late one night due to document organization work,
and also perhaps due to the recent [air quality
issues](2023-09-19-onward-air-quality-issues.md).

I also hope to wake up organically around 8:30 AM with natural bowel
movement within 30-45 minutes of waking up. I will set an alarm for
around 9:15 AM except on days where I have earlier appointments.

How did I do? I was approximately on time on Sunday September 24 (I
think I went to sleep just a little after 11:30 PM) and significantly
delayed on Monday September 25 (I went to sleep around 2:15 AM on
Tuesday). The reason for the delay on Monday was the delay related to
doing laundry and finishing a work-related task.

Due to the delay going to sleep Monday night, I was also delayed
getting up on Tuesday morning, getting up a little after 9 AM instead
of by 8:30 AM as I had hoped.

### Exercise plans

#### Break from jogging and strength exercise on Monday September 25, Tuesday September 26, and Wednesday September 27

I plan to skip jogging and strength exercise from Monday September 25
to Wednesday September 27.

However, I do expect to do other outside trips on Monday and Tuesday,
that involve walking both ways and carrying stuff back, so they'll
substitute to some extent for the jogging and strength exercise.

#### Break from hand gripper exercises or stand-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercises only on day of the procedure (Wednesday September 27)

For my hand gripper exercises and stand-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed
exercises, I intended to take a break only *on* the day of the
procedure, and not prior to it.

#### Resume normal exercises starting Thursday September 28

I plan to resume normal exercises starting Thursday September 28.

## Appointment

### Arrival at 12:50 PM

I arrived at the office at 12:50 PM, about ten minutes before the appointment time.

### Initial cleaning

The hygienist who saw me this time was different from the one who's
seen me the past few times. The new hygienist's name started with F; I
didn't catch the full name.

The hygienist skipped the mouthwash step and directly went to starting
to clean my teeth with the scraper., with the air blower being used
throughout.

### Dental examination: wisdom tooth healing and gum recession

The dentist (Dr. Jessica Ngo) examined my teeth. She said the healing
from my wisdom tooth removal had proceeded fine. She mentioned that my
lower right gum area, for the tooth next to the wisdom tooth, was a
little inflamed, and that might explain the pain I reported.

Her other main feedback was regarding my upper left gum area. She
mentioned that there had been some gum recession, and based on the
assessment of overall health of my teeth, she said that this was
likely caused by "toothbrush trauma" as she put it. She asked me if I
was using a soft, medium, or hard toothbrush. I said I was using a
medium toothbrush; she suggested switching to a soft toothbrush, and
brushing softly and carefully.

She was also unsure why the recession was localized to that area. She
asked me if I was left-handed or right-handed, as her theory was that
I was right-handed and therefore applying too much pressure on the
left side. However, I replied that I'm left-handed and use my left
hand for the toothbrush.

I mentioned brushing more around the area after the wisdom tooth
removal, and also that I had been eating much more using the left side
of my mouth, which might be a contributing factor.

This is the first dental assesssment where gum recession has been
mentioned. It's possible that things have been building up for a while
and got to a noticeable state just now. One additional point is that
the last two examinations were done by other doctors (not Dr. Ngo) and
different doctors may gravitate to checking slightly different
things. The most recent examination in December 2022 was done remotely
by another dentist, so it's possible that subtle indicators were
missed in the process.

### Other hygienist feedback

The hygienist said that I had plaque on my cheek and suggested
brushing in that area as well. She said that this has been leading to
a bit of bone loss in the area (she first mentioned this based on the
X-ray that she had pulled up, probably from my July visit, even before
looking in my mouth). She also asked if I have issues with grinding my
teeth, to which I replied that I didn't.

I had not received this feedback previously. I don't know if this
reflects different focal areas of different hygienists, or the
evolution of the state of my mouth.

### Further cleaning

After the dental examination, the hygienist did a bit of further
cleaning using the scraper, but without the air blower.

### Flossing

The hygienist used a mint floss to clean the teeth.

### Prophy/polish

The hygienist did a round of polishing my teeth using a prophy cup.

### Perio chart and gum recession chart

The hygienist did perio charting of my teeth. Also, based on the
dentist's feedback about early signs of gum recession, she also did a
gum recession chart. Each of the charts had 6 measuremennts per tooth
(3 front, 3 back) so a total of 360 numbers?

The perio chart numbers were generally in the 0-3mm range, with the
occasional 4mm. The gum recession chart numbers were generally like
(1,1,1) or (1,2,1), but around the upper left area that the dentist
mentioned, some of the numbers were in the 2-4mm range.

The hygienist said that the perio chart was fine compared to last time
(no sign of deterioration). As for the gum recession chart, this was
the first time that that chart was being measured, so there was no
previous reading to compare with. Reversing existing gum recession
basically doesn't happen on its own, so the goal for now is to keep an
eye out for further deterioration. If there's significant
deterioration then it would be necessary for them to refer me to a
specialist.

### Next appointment

The next appointment was booked for Wednesday, April 3, 2024, at 1 PM.

## Further actions

### Subjective assessment of dental state

Overall, my teeth feel lighter and less sensitive/inflamed, so I think
the cleaning worked as expected. In particular, I feel ready to use
the right side of my mouth more now.

### Cheek and gum roof brushing

I'm planning to consciously brush the inside of both cheeks as well as
the roof of my mouth with my morning round of brushing. This is based
on the hygienist's feedback regarding buildup in the cheek area.

### Jaw tightening and teeth grinding

I had told the hyigenist that I don't grind my teeth, and I think this
is overall a correct assessment. However, while in bed early the next
morning, I noticed a tendency to clench my jaw occasionally in that
sleepy state. So I think I should be a bit more careful about
this. This might also connect with some of the issues observed in
[December 2018 with head, neck, jaw, and tooth
pain](2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md).

### Actions related to gum recession

#### Purchase of soft toothbrushes

On the way back, I purchased 4 soft toothbrushes from Walgreens. After
getting back home, I also double-checked the rating for my existing
toothbrushes. It looks like the one I am currently using is in fact
rated soft! But some of the additional toothbrushes I had previously
bought for future use were rated medium, and some of the toothbrushes
I had bought in the past were medium. Basically I had not been
deliberately choosing soft toothbrushes. Going forward I will be
careful to only use soft toothbrushes.

#### Further diagnosis of what might be going on with the gum recession over the upper left teeth

While it's possible that the gum recession has been building up over
years. I'm in particular interested in hypotheses related to recent
events over the past few months causing the gum recession to become
notable over my upper left teeth.

* One possibility is that I have been brushing more vigorously in the
  area after the wisdom tooth removal in order to ensure that I
  recover properly, and this has been excessive. I should scale back
  my brushing.

  Remedy: I should consider myself recovered and not in need of
  special vigor or repetition in this area.

* Another possibility is that the change to the shape of my mouth
  after the wisdom tooth removal has led to me applying too much
  pressure in my brushing movements, possibly because I'm pressing
  assuming there's more stuff (teeth) to press than there actually
  are. Basically that the amount of pressure that I'm applying has not
  recalibrated to the absence of the wisdom tooth.

  Remedy: deliberately halve the pressure when getting to an area of
  the mouth that includes the now-missing wisdom tooth.

* It's also possible that my heavy use of the left side for eating
  over the last month has led to more wear and tear there, and in turn
  also prompted me to brush more in the area. I was avoiding use the
  right side much so as to let it heal fully and benefit from a dental
  cleaning.

  Remedy: it's time to get back to using the right side fully.

* I've also been obsessively probing my teeth with my tongue out of
  fear of food being stuck in the wisdom tooth area. It's possible
  that this obsessive probing puts stress on the nearby gums.

  Remedy: cut down on the probing.

* In the last few days I've been using the floss picks for both meals,
  compared to the past where I used the interdental brush for one meal
  and the floss pick for the other. My reason for using the floss pick
  was the feeling of buildup. With that said, I don't think that
  just a week of using floss picks a little more frequently could have
  been responsible for such a big change.

  Remedy: Now that I've got a dental
  cleaning done I can revert to my old pattern, which might be a bit
  less traumatic for the teeth.

#### Some research into gum recession charting and periodontal charting

It looks like there's less good online information on gum recession
charting than on periodontal (pocket) charting. So I wasn't able to
find authoritative information on how to interpret the numbers .I did
find [this
article](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3713747/) that
goes into some detail with pictures, and it has references to earlier
similar efforts.

I also watched a few videos:

* [Gum Recession - is there a cure?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DEv1GAf76sU)
  * This provides good explanation regarding how to distinguish
    between gum recession caused by gum disease and gum recession
    caused by overbrushing. Among other things, it mentions:
    * color of gums: pink in case of overbrushing, red/inflamed in
      case of gum disease
    * papilla (triangular areas of gums between teeth): filled in case
      of overbrushing, possibly empty in case of gum disease
  * It also talks about how thickness of gums can determine how easily
    recession can occur due to toothbrush trauma
  * It describes surgical treatments, such as connective tissue graft,
    that can get the gum back to the cemento-enamel junction (CEJ)
* [How to Measure Gingival Recession](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QoMK-VaTmLU)
* [Periodontal Charting Explained - Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yv8MIZ2MxKw)
* [Stop Gum Disease with These Brushing Techniques](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tobt-klsltg)
