# 2023-07-29: hand gripper exercise

On July 5, 2023, I placed an order for a set of 3 hand grippers: 100
lb, 150 lb, and 200 lb. I picked the order up on July 8. However,
since I was still recovering from wisdom tooth removal at the time,
and then had antibiotic-induced digestive issues, I did not
immediately start using the hand grippers.

Eventually, on 2023-07-29, I started using the 100 lb hand gripper.

## Observations as of the first few days of using the 100 lb hand gripper

* I can crush the hand gripper fully and consistently when I use both
  hands, with my left hand on one side and my right hand on the other
  side.

* Generally, my right hand seems to have greater grip strength,
  *almost* fully crushing the hand gripper consistently. By my second
  day (2023-07-30) I was able to get my right hand to *fully* crush
  the hand gripper on the first try of each set of tries (e.g., if I
  would wait a few minutes and then try, the first try I would crush
  fully). But even so I was not able to crush it on the second try in
  *most* cases, and never on the third try.

### Update on 2023-08-08

By this time I can consistently and comfortably crush the 100 lb hand
gripper with my right hand. Also, I have been able to occasionally
fully crush the hand gripper with my left hand, but not consistently.

### Update on 2023-09-04

I took a break for a few days before after my wisdom tooth removal
(between Monday 2023-08-21 and Monday 2023-08-28). I resumed on
Tuesday 2023-08-29, but limited to one round per day.

On Monday 2023-09-04, I resumed the use of the 100 lb hand gripper for
multiple rounds a day. I found that now I can comfortably and
consistently close with both hands. With that said, it's still easier
with the right hand.

This led me to experiment (for the first time since I started using
the hand gripper) with the 150 lb hand gripper. Unsurprisingly, I
wasn't able to close this hand gripper with either hand (each hand
individually was only able to partially close up to the "vertical"
stage). With both hands together, I was able to close the 150 lb.

## Update on 2023-09-06

For the first time ever, I was able to close the 150 lb hand gripper
with my right hand. However, I was not able to repeat this feat
immediately. I expect to be able to repeat it sporadically over the
next week or so and to take at least a week before I can do a
consistent close with my right hand.

I felt pain in the area of my fingers that had pressed the gripper
after closing this; it was clearly effortful.

## Update on 2023-10-23 / 2023-10-24 / 2023-10-25

I am now occasionally just about able to close the 150 lb hand gripper
with my left hand. I can also now reasonably consistently close the
150 lb hand gripper with my right hand. I continue to be able to
comfortably close the 100 lb hand gripper with either hand, though
with the left hand it still is a bit displaced sometimes.

## Intermittently reduced right hand strength on 2023-10-27

On Friday 2023-10-27, I tried the hand gripper at 9 AM. I was able to
comfortably close the 100 lb with both hands, but was not able to
close the 150 lb with either hand. Whereas not being able to close it
with the left hand was as expected, not being able to close it with
the right hand was unexpected.

When I tried again shortly after 10 AM, the situation with my left
hand hadn't changed, but my right hand had further deteriorated, with
it just barely being able to close the 100 lb sometimes (and not even
being able to close it at other times).

I applied vaseline and waited a minute and tried again. The situation
had now reverted to what it had been around 9 AM: I could close 100 lb
comfortably with both hands, but I couldn't close 150 lb with either
hand.

I tried again after a minute, and now I was just barely able to cloe
the 150 lb with my right hand.

## Update on 2024-03-17

Starting this day, I am planning to do a daily practice of keeping the
100 lb hand gripper closed for at least 5 consecutive seconds with
each hand separately. 5 is about what I can reasonably do right
now. I'm hoping to increase it gradually to a larger amount, like 10
seconds.
