# 2024-04-25: abdominal pain

## The day before

On 2024-04-24, I got takeout from Udupi Palace for my evening
meal. This was the same as my usual takeout, but the gap since the
previous time I had had the takeout was quite large (16 days) so my
body might have become unacclimated to it. But otherwise it was a
pretty normal takeout.

There were also some stressful events related to the house, that were
not fully resolved by end of day but the plan was to resolve them the
next day.

## Events in the morning

### Before the pain (7:34 AM to 8:40 AM approximately)

On 2024-04-25, I was woken up around 7:34 AM by alerts. After acking
them, I went back to sleep and slept for about 10 minutes more, till
the approximate time that I would normally have woken up. I got out of
bed around 7:50 AM.

I went for a bowel movement around 8:40 AM, which is a little later
than usual (both in absolute terms and relative to my time of waking
up). Until then, I had not experienced any notable pain or discomfort.

### Onset of pain during bowel movement (8:40 AM to 9 AM approximately)

The pain started in my abdominal area (middle, neither left nor right)
during the process of the bowel movement some time shortly after 8:40
AM. The bowel movement was fairly incomplete but there was still some
movement.

### Return to computer and subsequent attempts to rest (9:10 AM to 9:50 AM approximately)

After finishing the partial bowel movement, I returned to my computer
and worked for a little while, but the pain was making it difficult
for me to concentrate. The seated posture also seemed painful.

At 9:30 AM, I lay down in bed, however, the lying down posture was
also difficult for me, so I sat up in bed, resting against the
wall. This posture didn't suit me either.

### Second attempted bowel movement (9:50 AM to 10:10 AM approximately)

Around 9:50 AM, I did my second attempted bowel movement. It wasn't so
much that I felt bowel pressure, but more that the posture of bowel
movement felt more attractive to me. I did have a little bit of bowel
movement, though it was even smaller than the previous one, and the
total across the two bowel movements was still a little less than a
normal morning bowel movement.

### Acetaminophen consumption (probably around 10:15 AM to 10:20 AM)

While I don't have clear records, I believe this was the time that I
took my acetaminophen tablet with water. While I didn't record the
time of consumption when I did it, I do have some search queries and
webpage visits that I believe were around the time of the consumption,
that my browsing history shows to have been made around this time.

### Trying to work from bed then alternating between bed and table (10:20 to 11:55 AM approimately)

As the seated posture wasn't working well for me, I moved my laptop to
my bed (something I do very rarely) in order to work from
bed. However, after about 10-15 minutes, my pain felt more acute, so I
stopped work, closed the laptop, moved it back to the table, and then
tried various postures including going back to bed, staying seated,
leaning forward.

At around 11 AM, I initiated various notification steps, marking
myself out of office for work and asking colleagues to take over my
on-calls.

At some point I was moaning and sighing pretty acutely, and it was
around this time that I decided I should make a trip to urgent
care. Around 11:42 AM, I called the nearest urgent care facility and
talked to them; they said they don't do appointments so I would have
to come and wait, with the waiting time starting only after my
arrival.

A few other notes:

* I experienced some chills, but no fever (my measured temperature was
  98.0 degrees Fahrenheit, though I don't consider the temperature
  measurement to be very reliable). I switched from shorts to pants
  and also switched to a thicker sweatshirt.

* I tried to measure my heart rate with the pulse oximeter, but it was
  failing to give a reading, and I gave up after a bit.

### Seeming improvement in symptoms and outside trip (11:55 AM onward)

Around 11:55 AM, I had a pretty rapid improvement in symptoms, with
the acute pain subsiding. My initial thought was that now, the
symptoms were good enough that I would be able to walk to the urgent
care (rather than take an Uber/Lyft).

I don't know if this improvement is due to the acetaminophen (as it
started around 100 minutes after, which is higher than the 45 minutes
that is generally expected for acetaminophen. The significance is that
if it's just acetaminophen masking the continued underlying issue,
then the issue will recur as the acetaminophen wears off.

At around 12:05 PM, I left my home, heading toward the urgent
care. However, a few minutes in, I felt that I was feeling well enough
that going to urgent care didn't make sense. So I changed direction
and went to Berkeley Bowl to stock up on some food items that might
make sense given my digestive issues -- rice and vegan yogurt (I
already had some rice at home, but I had just used up my vegan yogurt
supply yesterday and had anyway been planning to go purchase more).
