# 2024-05-21: unplanned 19-hour fast

NOTE: The ~19.5-hour duration itself isn't the reason for this being
noteworthy; what's more noteworthy is that the bulk of this duration
(about 11 hours) was *after* waking up. A 19-hour fast that's due to a
combination of a slightly early second meal and a slightly late first
meal isn't as notable.

## Timeline

### 2024-05-20 (prior day)

On the evening of 2024-05-20, I had dinner a little late, around 9:30
PM. I finished eating around 10:30 PM. This was due to a bunch of
things happening, as well as my decision to meal prep in anticipation
of it being difficult the next day.

### 2024-05-21 (day of fast and breaking thereof)

On 2024-05-21, I woke up a little after 7:30 AM.

I ended up having my first meal of the day at around 6:10 PM. The
reason for the delay was that the planned stuff that I was aware would
happen ended up happening a little earlier than anticipated, and
continued longer than anticipated. Even when it wrapped up (a little
before 5 PM) there were a number of loose threads I wanted to finish
up before breaking for food. I got enough of the key loose threads
wrapped up by around 6 PM, so then I got ready and had my first meal
of the day.

In addition to the delay in eating, I also drank a little less water
than usual during the day, primarily because the stuff going on
reduced the frequency at which I could urinate. I urinated just once
between 9:40 AM and around 4:30 PM when the work finished.

I had a larger meal than usual and skipped a second meal. I went to
sleep a few minutes past 11 PM.

## 2024-05-22 (next day)

I woke up around 7 AM and had a normal morning (including a normal
bowel movement).

I felt a little soreness/tightness in my throat, somewhat similar
(though less intense) than in my [last unplanned
fast](2024-01-27-unplanned-22-hour-fast.md) (see
[here](2024-01-garlic-flavored-olive-oil-and-sore-throat.md)). At the
time, I attributed the soreness to a mix of the fast and
garlic-flavored olive oil; the smaller magnitude of soreness here
suggests that last time it was indeed a combination. The qualia of the
soreness this time was somewhat similar to that last time -- it wasn't
sore in the way that would get in the way of speaking, but more like
something was stuck or tensed up in the food ingestion pathway.

I also noticed slightly degraded performance on breath holds and my
initial [sequence memory
tests](https://humanbenchmark.com/tests/sequence), though after a few
rounds I was able to get to normal sequence memory test scores. I
think the fasting did frazzle me a little bit in subtle ways, though
still keeping me within the range of normal functioning where it's not
getting in my way for basic stuff.

I was able to jog the normal amount, but later in the day, I felt a
little more fatigue (though without any negative affect on my mood)
and likely ended up doing less work than I would normally do. This is
partly because, due to my fatigue, I multiplexed my work with
binge-watching ER to a greater extent than I normally do.

## 2024-05-23 (two days later)

I woke up around 7 AM and had a normal morning (including a normal
bowel movement).

I continued to experience similar symptoms of slight soreness, though
they reduced significantly after brushing my teeth and drinking water.

## For comparison

For comparison, see [2024-01-27: unplanned 22-hour
fast](2024-01-27-unplanned-22-hour-fast.md).
