# 2024 activity tracker

This continues with the spirit of my [2023 activity
tracker](2023-activity-tracker.md), recording my trips outside the
home. I exclude trips for jogging and running. I also exclude trips
for grocery purchases and picking up takeout from restaurants; you can
get a sense for those trips by looking in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Friday January 12

In the afternoon, I made a trip, mostly for my COVID-19 vaccine.

I first went to the Ashby BART to add money to my Clipper Card. This
wasn't urgent, but I had a few minutes before my COVID-19 vaccine
appointment at Walgreens, and I wanted to add more money to my Clipper
Card to get the item off my list prior to upcoming international
travel (BART cost for airport trip is high, and there may be other
travel needed in preparation for the trip).

I was done there at around 2:36 PM. From there, I went to the
Walgreens on Adeline Street, arriving at 2:45 PM. My process of
getting the COVID-19 vaccine is described in the [appointment section
of the doc on that
topic](2024-01-12-pfizer-covid-vaccine-updated-booster-dose.md#appointment-2024-01-12). After
I was done with the vaccine card update, I bought a few items from
Walgreens, checked out, and headed back home.

## Thursday January 18

In the evening, I made a trip to Walgreens, checking out a little
after 6 PM.

## Sunday January 21

In the afternoon, I made a trip to downtown Berkeley for some
purchases. I first stopped at the Target in downtown Berkeley, then
went to Berkeley Ace Hardware, then went to Trader Joe's; purchases at
Trader Joe's are recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Friday January 26

In the evening, I made a trip related to my trip preparation. After
being done with that, I did my usual food purchases recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Saturday January 27

In the later afternoon, I made a trip related to my trip
preparation. After being done with that, I purchased groceries from
Trader Joe's, as recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Saturday February 10

In the early afternoon, I made a trip to downtown Berkeley. I first
went to Citibank for some financial transactions. After that, I did my
usual food purchases recorded in
[food_purchases.sql](../sql/food_purchases.sql).

## Thursday February 15

In the afternoon, I made a trip for administrative stuff. I was out
from around 1:30 PM to around 2:30 PM.

## Friday February 16 to Sunday February 18

Over this period, I was on a flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru. I
arrived in Bengaluru on Sunday and then went over to stay at my
parents' place.

## Monday February 19

On this day, in the morning, I went for a brief administrative trip.

## Tuesday February 20

On this day, from the morning to the early afternoon, I went for a
lengthy administrative trip.

## Wednesday February 21

In the afternoon (around 4 PM) I made a trip to a small toiletries
store nearby to buy a few toiletries.
