# 2024 exercise tracker

## 2024-01-06: skipped run as it was rather cold

On Saturday 2024-01-06, after the high probability of rain stopped and
I was considering going out for my run, I saw that the outdoor
temperature was a little low, and it was also dark, so I decided to
skip my run on this day, and instead conserve my energy for other
things.

## 2024-01-09: trouble with standing-on-one-leg on right leg, and halved run running both ways

On 2024-01-09, I had trouble with the standing-on-one-leg exercise on
my right leg, failing to clear beyond 12 seconds across several tries,
and also shifting my right leg a lot. I didn't get a chance to do the
exercise again after jogging. The left leg was fine; I cleared 14
seconds on the first try.

I also did a halved run, running both ways, in order to get back in
time for a meeting.

## 2024-01-10 to 2024-01-14: skipped most exercise for various reasons

On 2024-01-10, I had a long general catchup meeting with work
colleagues, and after that had to catch up on other things, and it was
also drizzling intermittedntly, and by the time I was done and the
drizzling stopped, it was dark. So I skipped jogging and other
exericses.

On 2024-01-11, the day was very hectic with a mix of day job work and
food prep, and I ended up not getting a chance to go jogging.

On 2024-01-12, I had to get my COVID vaccine in the afternoon, and so
I decided to skip exercise both for time reasons and to conserve my
energy.

On 2024-01-13, I skipped exercise as I was recovering from the COVID
vaccine and also because it was raising.

On 2024-01-14, I skipped most exercise again; although I had recovered
more, I needed to go for food purchases and then prepare food and I
wasn't able to slot my jogging in. However, I did do the
standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercise and did a little bit of
hand gripper exercise.

## 2024-01-15: shorter run due to less energy

On 2024-01-15, instead of doing my usual 1.25 miles jogging + 0.75
miles walking, I did about 0.8 miles jogging + 0.8 miles walking. The
shorter distance was due to me feeling less energetic, which might be
a reflection of my continuing recovery from the COVID vaccine, or a
result of taking a break from jogging for a few days (I suspect the
former). While I could have pushed myself to jog a bit more, I felt
it's probably better to not push myself, so that I have more energy
left over for recovery and for the other things I plan to do today.

## 2024-01-16: skipped run due to intermittent rain

On 2024-01-16, it was raining intermittently throughout the afternoon
and evening, so I skipped my run.

## 2024-01-17: skipped strength exercises, slightly shorter running portion

On 2024-01-17, my energy levels had still not recovered fully to what
they used to be prior to the COVID vaccine. Instead of my usual
pattern of at least 1.25 miles running and the remainder of the total
2 miles spent walking, I only ran for 1 out of the 2 miles. This was
still an improvement over 2024-01-15, when I had done 0.8 miles
running + 0.8 miles walking.

I also skipped strength exercises, partly due to fatigue from running
and partly as a continued precautionary measure after the COVID
vaccine.

## 2024-01-18: continued to skip strength exercises, slightly shorter running portion (though longer than before)

On 2024-01-18, my energy levels had still not recovered fully to what
they used to be prior to the COVID vaccine. Instead of my usual
pattern of at least 1.25 miles running and the remainder of the total
2 miles spent walking, I only ran for 1 out of the 2 miles. This was
still an improvement over 2024-01-17, when I had done 1 mile
running + 1 mile walking.

## 2024-01-19 and 2024-01-20: skipped most exercises due to rain

On both these days, due to rain for large parts of the day, I skipped
jogging. Since jogging serves as a warmup for strength exercises, I
also skipped strength exercises. With that said, I did do the
standing-on-one-leg exercise on 2024-01-20 and hand gripper exercises
(probably) on both days.

## 2024-01-21: back to normal

On 2024-01-21, I did jogging (to my usual extent) and also resumed
strength exercises; this was my first time doing strength exercises
since the COVID vaccine that I had gotten on 2024-01-12. This was also
my first time doing strength exercises with two 8 lb dumb bells (I had
previously only been using one dumb bell so I had only been doing one
hand at a time). For more on the weight increase, see
[2024-01-21-weight-lifting-weight-increase.md](2024-01-21-weight-lifting-weight-increase.md).
