# 2024-01-27: unplanned 22-hour fast

## Timeline

On the evening of 2024-01-26, I had dinner a little late, around 9 PM
(finishing around 10 PM). Then, on 2024-01-27, I did not have any food
in the morning, as I got engrossed in some tax stuff. After that,
around 3 PM, I had to make a trip to downtown Berkeley for some
trip-related stuff, and it was a bit time-sensitive, so I
intentionally held off. After I came back, a little before 6 PM, after
being out for over two hours (of standing and walking, maybe about 50%
standing and 50% walking), I spent time wrapping up some of the stuff
triggered by my outside trip. Then I returned to the tax stuff.

It was around 8 PM when I finally decided I was feeling hungry enough
that I had to break for my "breakfast"; I had also exhausted my cooked
vegetables, but I didn't feel like I could hold out to cook before
having this much-belated breakfast. So I had a quick, calorie-heavy
breakfast, then after a half-hour break I started potatoes prep for
lunch/dinner. All in all, I had my second meal at around 11:30 PM, so
I ended up having my full two meals, just shifted a lot in time from
when I'd normally have them.

It will be interesting to see how quickly I bounce back to normal on
2024-01-28.

## Not planned in advance, but still semi-intentional

Although I did not plan this 23-hour fast in advance, it was still
somewhat intentional and not entirely forced by circumstance. I could
have chosen to break from my tax work and have some food before
heading out for my time-sensitive trip-related item; I could also have
chosen to eat immediately after coming back rather than finish a bunch
of followup steps prior to eating.

My intention, in addition to prioritizing those specific tasks, was
also to measure how well my body and mind could handle the lack of
food. This might be relevant when planning food routines ahead of long
trips; for instance, I might want to eat very little to avoid having
strong bowel pressure, and I wanted to get a sense for what eating
less could do to my mood and energy. There could also be genuine
emergency situations where I lack the time or resources to eat.

## Observations

Overall, I did start feeling a little bit hungry and tired around 3-4
PM; however, I was able to execute on my two-hour trip (50% standing,
50% walking) without too much physical and mental exhaustion, even
though that trip was already after 17 hours of not eating. Even after
I came back, I was able to carry out my other followup work well
enough (admittedly low-intellectual, but still needing a lot of little
areas of focus).

By around 8 PM (22 hours into not eating), however, I was noticing a
drop in attentiveness and a need for replenishment, so I decided to
have my first meal even though I was close to exhausting my cooked
vegetables. I had plenty of tortillas, sauerkraut, and almond milk,
miso soup, and nuts, so I could have more of these to complement the
dearth of vegetables left. Once I started eating, some of that
suppressed hunger came back, and I tore into the tortillas a little
more than I normally would. Even so, I was able to stop my binge, take
a break, and then get to cooking my potatoes mix to allow for a
slightly-delayed fuller gratification with a wider range of nutrients.

Overall, this was a success as far as unplanned things go. However, my
takeaway is that at least for late-evening/night flights, it will not
be good enough to eat nothing all day until the flight; a little bit
of morning food consumption will probably be very helpful in avoiding
the pangs of hunger I experienced at 8 PM, which would be close to the
departure time of a late-evening/night-time flight.
