# 2024-01-12: Pfizer COVID vaccine: updated booster dose

This document describes my plan for receiving the Pfizer COVID vaccine
in January 2024, as well as my experience after actually receiving the
vaccine.

Sections of this document:

* [Decision to get the booster and choice of timing](#decision-to-get-the-booster-and-choice-of-timing)
* [Appointment booking](#appointment-booking)

## Decision to get the booster and choice of timing

I think an annual frequency of getting the COVID booster is a
reasonable trade-off between the benefits of regular vaccination for
keeping my immunity reasonably okay (in the absence of actually
getting the disease, which may be great for immunity, but is exactly
what I'm trying to avoid). The COVID booster seems to be settling into
an annual update cycle, and the update for the 2023-2024 season has
been available since September 2023. So, getting a booster during the
2023-2024 season makes sense.

My timing of January 2024 is mainly driven by a desire to have high
immunity during my international flight to India and back; these
flights are in mid-February and mid-March respectively. If it had not
been for this consideration, I would likely have gotten my booster in
November or December.

I'm currently thinking of getting the booster on a Friday,
specifically one of the days January 12, January 19, and January 26. A
Friday allows me to recover during the weekend, where my externally
imposed load of work or other stimuli is low; also, as of now, I do
not have any planned events in the wekeends after any of these
Fridays. Here are my thoughts on the relative merits:

Friday January 12 may be best in terms of maximizing recovery time,
since Monday January 15 is a work holiday (for Labor Day); also,
getting the vaccine done sooner is, all said and done, better for my
sanity and optionality, as there may be other things that come up
related to my India travel that I need to attend to. Also, if the
weather is really bad, I have flexibility to delay the appointment a
few days, a flexibility I will have less of the more I delay.

In terms of the immunity as a function of time, there isn't
super-granular data, but research such as
[this](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmoa2117128) (that has
graphs of COVID vaccine effectiveness as a function of time) suggests
that effectively increases quickly up to 1 month, then slowly from 1
to 2 months, then decreases from 2 to 3 months, so that the 3-month
effectiveness is about the same as the 1-month effectiveness. The
differences between effectiveness at the 1-month, 2-month, and 3-month
mark are not super-huge. The time period covered by this research was
before the omicron variant became dominant, so it is likely somewhat
outdated. But overall, I think around 1 month prior to my departure
makes sense; this would be 2 months prior to my return, and if for
whatever reason my return gets delayed a bit, my return would still be
within 3 months of it.

## Apppointment booking

### Preliminary check on 2023-12-09

On Saturday 2023-12-09, I logged in to the Walgreens website to check
vaccine appointment availability.

The default value doesn't show the closest location at all (Adeline
Street) but that's because it is limited to locations within 25 miles
of where I am *and* with appointments available today. By changing the
radius to 5 miles and changing the appointment date to a later date
(starting tomorrow 2023-12-10), I can pull up availability at Adeline
Street.

As of 2023-12-09, appointments are available at Adeline Street from
the next day (2023-12-10) all the way to Saturday January 6
(2024-01-06); also, starting 2023-12-12 (three days from now), all or
almost all appointment times are available. The range of available
appointment times is from around 9:30 AM or 9:45 AM to 4:30 PM or 4:45
PM at 15-minute intervals, with slots from 1:15 PM to 2:15 PM missing.

Since it looks like an appointment can be booked up to 2024-01-06, I'm
expecting that if I check in a week from now, I'll be able to book an
appointment for Friday 2024-01-12. So, I am setting a calendar
reminder for next Saturday (2023-12-16) to book the appointment.

### Appointment booking on 2023-12-16

On Saturday 2023-12-16, I logged in to the Walgreens site to book a
COVID-19 vaccine appointment for Friday 2024-01-12, as planned. The
selected vaccine was the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, consistent with my
previous vaccines that were also Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. I booked
the appointment for 3 PM.

I also finished the consent form. The vaccine information statement it
linked to is
[here](https://www.walgreens.com/images/adaptive/pdf/pharmacy/COVID-19_Comirnaty_Pfizer-BioNTech_Fact-Sheet.pdf).

I confirmed that I received the email about the appointment. The email
(as well as the website) reminded me to bring my COVID-19 vaccine
information card. The email also told me to arrive at the location 15
minutes prior to the appointment, similar to previous emails.
