# Exercise routine

Last major update: September 23, 2023

Last pass of full document review (with updates and corrections where needed): May 17, 2024

This document describes my exercise routine. I intend to update it
when there are changes to my ongoing routine. See also my yearly
exercise tracker docs (such as
[2023-exercise-tracker.md](2023-exercise-tracker.md) (currently
pending)) where I record time periods where I deviated from the
routine.

## Jogging and return walking

### Frequency: daily

I generally go for a jog + walk once a day.

### Usual route length and jogging/walking split

My usual route is about 1 mile (1.6 km) each way, for a total of 2
miles (3.2 km). The route is punctuated by intersections though none
with traffic lights and pretty much most of the route I have
pedestrian right of way. However, I do generally yield to others since
I'm generally not in a hurry to get anywhere, and if there are
significant traffic logjams I might change my route a little bit.

I aim to jog for the full duration of at least one way (1 mile) plus
at least a quarter of the other way (0.25 miles) minus some parts
where I have to slow down (e.g., when crossing a road, or due to dogs
or children nearby who might get excited by somebody moving fast, or
when cars are moving out of parking spots). So in general I aim to jog
at least 1.25 miles and walk the remaining 0.75 miles. When I have
more energy, I may jog a larger portion, and therefore walk back a
shorter residual duration. In general, when reasonably energetic, I
jog about 1.4-1.5 miles and walk back the remaining 0.5-0.6 miles.

Overall, one way (the first 1 mile, mostly jogging) takes me about
12-15 minutes and the return journey (mix of jogging and walking)
takes me about 15-20 minutes.

I record in my exercise tracker file (for instance, [2024 exercise
tracker](2024-exercise-tracker.md) for 2024) when I skip jogging or
jog less than 1.25 miles.

### Abridged routes and potential reasons

In some rare cases, I do not go out the full 1 mile, but rather go out
a shorter distance, generally around half the distance (so 0.5 miles
each way, for a total of 1 mile). Depending on the exact reason, I
might jog fully *both ways* in case of an abridged route, or I might
still jog one way and walk the other. Below are some typical reasons:

* **Probability of rain or other bad weather conditions**: For
  probabilities of rain between 5% and 25%, if weather conditions are
  otherwise good, and if I can't go out at a different time, I might
  choose to go out but do an abridged route, with jogging in both
  directions. In some cases I might also do the abridged route *twice*
  so that I still get the same amount of exercise.

* **Time constraints**: I might need to get back for a meeting, and a
  later time of day wouldn't work for my jog. In such cases I'll do
  the abridged route, but try to jog back all the way to get the full
  amount of jogging.

* **Fatigue**: In some cases I don't feel physically or mentally able
  to do the full route, so I might do the abridged route; in such
  cases I will jog only one way and walk back. Kinds of fatigue
  include: mental fatigue, overall physical "energy level" fatigue,
  and knee/leg fatigue.

### Time of day for jogging

Outside of the winter months, I generally jog in the morning. The
exact time varies but it's usually between 8 AM and 11 AM. The total
duration is about 35-40 minutes (see jogging/walking breakdown
above). I generally jog after passing stool and doing a bit of work in
the morning (whether day job or other things) but before eating
anything. The reason for jogging in the morning is that it's generally
cooler (so better temperature-wise) and it also works well to get that
energy use done in the morning to feel better the whole day.

During the winter months, the mornings can be too cold, so I try to
jog in the afternoon, when it's warmest. This is generally sandwiched
between my meals, so after my morning meal but before my
afternoon/evening meal.

### Reasons for skipping

I have a few different reasons for skipping:

* **Currently raining or highly likely to rain**: Particularly during
  the winter months (around January and February, sometimes December
  and March) it can be raining heavily, or be highly likely to rain,
  throughout the day.

* **Other inclement weather conditions**: Examples include extreme
  heat, extreme cold, and air quality issues.

* **Time constraints during the parts of the day where I usually
  jog**: For instance, outside winter months, I might be unable to jog
  on days where I have a lot of meetings in the morning, Even though I
  might be freer in the afternoon on that day, it might be too hot in
  the afternoon. Similarly, in the winter months, being busy in the
  afternoon might mean I can't go.

* **Overall lack of time**: This could happen if I'm doing a project
  with a tight deadline, or for other reasons I want to work
  continuously on something to not lose my flow.

* **Fatigue**: In some cases, I skip jogging due to fatigue.  Kinds of
  fatigue include: mental fatigue, overall physical "energy level"
  fatigue, and knee/leg fatigue.

* **Sickness or recent medical treatment**: In some cases, I skip
  jogging because I am sick or have recently been sick, even if I am
  not explicitly feeling fatigued. Also, I might skip jogging for a
  day or two after receiving a vaccine or getting a dental procedure.

* **Preemptive break to relax and conserve energy**: If I have a
  medical or dental procedure later in the day, or the next day, I
  might skip jogging. This is to conserve energy and get to a relaxed
  state prior to the appointment, as well as reduce the risk of
  injuries or other challenges right before the appointment. The
  duration of preemptive break could be limited to same-day break or
  extend up to two days prior (more than two days is unlikely). This
  has the added benefit of freeing up some of my time for any other
  preparatory steps I need to take prior to the appointment.

* **Knee rest day**: I generally try to take a day off from jogging at
  least once every 15 days. So, if there's no break happening for any
  of the other reasons for 15 days, I will take a forced knee rest.

## Standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed exercise

This is a standard exercise of standing on one leg with both eyes
closed. The exercise provides both a measurement of and helps improve
balance.

When I do this exercise, I do one round standing on the right leg, and
one round standing on the left leg.

As of May 2024, my aim is to be able to manage at least 20 seconds on
each leg, with adjustments for colder indoor temperatures. In
practice, I generally do somewhere between 23 and 40 seconds on each
leg.

See
[2023-10-28-standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed.md](2023-10-28-standing-on-one-leg-with-eyes-closed.md)
for more details.

## Hand gripper exercise

For more historical background, see
[2023-07-29-hand-gripper-exercise.md](2023-07-29-hand-gripper-exercise.md).

### Description and frequency

I keep a 100 lb hand gripper, a 150 lb hand gripper, and a 200 lb hand
gripper (experimental) on my desk, readily accessible to me when
working on my computer. Sometimes when taking a brief break from work,
or while on a call where I'm talking or listening and therefore not
using my hands to type, I'll use the hand grippers.

In each round, I try to do at least two attempted closes of the hand
gripper.

As of 2024-05-13, my situation is:

* Right hand on 100 lb: closes comfortably and consistently even after
  many repetitions; can generally hold in closed position with slight
  quivers for at least 10 seconds, occasionally up to 20 seconds

* Left hand on 100 lb: closes comfortably and consistently even after
  many repetitions; can generally hold in closed position with slight
  quivers for at least 10 seconds, occasionally up to 20 seconds

* Right hand on 150 lb: closes consistently most of the time, up to at
  least two repetitions; however, it may not close if I have just done
  a long hold with the 100 lb, likely due to temporary fatigue; can
  hold for somewhere between 3 and 5 seconds with slight quivers once
  closed

* Left hand on 150 lb: has closed a few times but most of the time,
  comes just short of closing

* Right hand on 200 lb: I am far from being able to close. I can just
  about get to parallel.

* Left hand on 200 lb: I am far from being able to close. I can just
  about get to parallel.

The effective frequency may be about 4 to 8 rounds per day.

If I try to force a significant increase in the hand gripper rating,
number of closes, or duration of holding close, by too much, I get
calluses in the areas where I'm trying to grip hard. These are pretty
harmless, but I still need to keep this in mind.

See
[2023-07-29-hand-gripper-exercise.md](2023-07-29-hand-gripper-exercise.md)
for more history.

### Reasons for skipping

* **Sickness or recent medical treatment**: See similar explanation
  for jogging.

* **Preemptive break to relax and conserve energy**: See similar
  explanation for jogging.

* **Preemptive break to improve hand appearance**: If there are
  particular reasons I really care about having good hands, I might
  take a break from the hand gripper (or at least the 150 lb hand
  gripper).

## Breath holds

I generally do two breath holds in quick succession, both max-pause
breath holds, generally for 40 to 60 seconds. See
[2023-07-30-buteyko-breathing.md](2023-07-30-buteyko-breathing.md) for
more background information.
