# Health profile

Last major update: October 27, 2023

This is the health profile for Vipul Naik. It is updated
periodically. It does not include details of specific
events/incidents, that are generally recorded in their own respective
files.

* [Vital signs](#vital-signs)
* [Physical build](#physical-build)
* [Diet](#diet)
* [Supplements](#supplements)
* [Exercise](#exercise)
* [Sleep](#sleep)
* [Other routine elements](#other-routine-elements)
* [Medications](#medications)

## Vital signs

### Heart rate

My resting, seated heart rate, as measured by my Zacurate pulse
oximeter, is generally 55-60 bpm. At any given time, the heart rate
variation is about 10%, or 5 bpm. So sometimes my heart rate may be
65-70 bpm, sometimes 60-65 bpm, and sometimes 50-55 bpm.

My heart rate goes up by about 10-15 bpm when I stand up, and then
stabilizes down to about 5 bpm higher than my seated heart rate.

My heart rate is a little lower in the morning (measured after a bowel
movement), and the variation may also be more. On some mornings, I
have measured a heart rate of 44-55 bpm.

Generally, when my resting heart rate exceeds 75 bpm, I can "feel" my
heart racing. After I took antibiotics as part of my recovery process
from the [2023-07-05 wisdom tooth removal (left
side)](2023-07-05-wisdom-tooth-removal-left-side.md), there were
periods where I could feel my heart racing. I didn't have the pulse
oximeter at the time, so I relied on crude measurement of my heart
rate, and the crude estimate was around 80 bpm.

For more extensive experiment results, see
[2023-08-18-pulse-oximeter-experimentation.md](2023-08-18-pulse-oximeter-experimentation.md).

### SpO2 (saturation percentage of oxygen)

My SpO2 is about 97% most of the time (sometimes going up to 98% and
sometimes going down to 96%). It is a little higher in the mornings
(around 99%). It can drop to as low as 92% when I do an extended
breath hold, but it quickly rebounds and even overshoots before
settling back to its equilibrium value.

For more extensive experiment results, see
[2023-08-18-pulse-oximeter-experimentation.md](2023-08-18-pulse-oximeter-experimentation.md).

### Temperature

My temperature, as measured by a non-contact forehead infrared
thermometer, ranges from 97.6 to 99. Temperatures at the high end of
this range, when I am feeling well, are generally due to high ambient
temperatures for an extended period of time. See
[2021-08-temperature-baseline.md](2021-08-temperature-baseline.md) for
a historical established temperature baseline.

### Blood pressure

I do not have a blood pressure machine at home, so I only get readings
when I go for medical appointments. My two most recent readings were
108 / 78 on 2023-10-04 (as part of the [2023-10-04 eye
exam](2023-10-04-eye-exam.md)) and 102 / 67 on 2021-10-29 (as part of
the [2021-10-29 eye exam](2021-10-29-eye-exam.md)). These readings are
consistent with my expectations.

## Physical build

### Height

My height is a tad under 5 feet 9 inches. This puts me a little below
average height for an adult male.

### Weight

My weight is around 120 lb or 54 kg. According to online BMI
calculators, this puts me in the underweight category for my height
for an adult male.

My weight has stayed largely stable over the past several years as of
2023.

### Waist size

I have a lean, athletic appearance. My waist size is at the "small"
end, with shorts/trousers sizes of 28 and 30 generally working for me,
and 32 being manageable with a tight belt.. I do not have a paunch.

## Diet

### Childhood diet

As a child, I followed a vegetarian diet, primarily as a
result of growing up in a vegetarian household in India.

On the vegatarian/vegan distinction:

* Milk and milk products: I had milk products regularly; most significantly,
  curd/yogurt. I also had other milk products to varying degrees,
  including milk, cheese, cottage cheese (paneer), though toward my
  teen years I had phased many of these out.

* Eggs: I remember having egg-based products (omelets, egg-based
  cakes) a few times as a child, but these were not part of my regular
  diet.

* Honey: I remember having honey (jams, marmalades) occasionally, but
  this was not a regular part of my diet.

Due to a family history of diabetes, hypertension, and heart problems,
I was conscious from a relatively young age of the importance of
reducing the intake of sugar and fried foods, and of keeping
carbohydrate consumption to a modicum.

### Changes to diet

As an adult, I have mostly continued with my childhood diet, with
minor modifications. For a period of time in between, I used to
consume hot chocolate drinks daily (from Starbucks or similar
places). Although I didn't consume them for the sugar content, they
did have higher sugar content than the rest of my diet. In 2019, after
[encountering dental problems]((2018-12-head-neck-jaw-tooth-pain.md)
that were partly related to this consumption, I phased out hot
chocolate consumption by May 2019. Since then, I have had very low
consumption of sugary foods.

At some point around 2018/2019, I transitioned from a vegetarian to a
vegan diet, mostly for ethical reasons, but also believing that there
would not be significant adverse health impacts. By this point, I was
already taking Vitamin D supplements, and I introduced sauerkraut into
my diet to make up for the loss of active cultures from stopping the
consumption of yogurt.

### Current diet

You can get a general sense of my current diet by looking at my
[recent food purchases](../sql/food_purchases.sql). I don't keep a log
of food consumption, but since I waste very little of my food, my food
purchases present a reasonably accurate picture of my food
consumption.

Here are some highlights of my current diet:

* It is vegan in the sense that none of the food I *regularly* consume
  uses animal products. However, I am not particular about vegan
  certification per se. On occasion, when eating out, I may have
  something milk-based, such as a *raita*, if it comes as part of a
  dish I otherwise want to have.

* I occasionally do shallow nutrient reviews such as the one in
  [2021-04-11](2021-04-11-shallow-nutrient-review.md), and may make
  diet adjustments based on that.

* The proportion of my food I eat that is restaurant takeout or
  equivalent (prepped meals) is, as of 2023, about 10-15%. Most of
  these are Udupi Palace spinach masala dosa. The general trend from
  2015/2016 to 2023 has been for this proportion to drop, with the
  drop being particularly sharp around 2023 after I reduced my work
  hours and consequently had more time for meal prep at home. At its
  peak, something like 25-35% of my meals may have been restaurant
  meals or prepped meals.

* Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, I've basically
  stopped eating out except for cases where I'm meeting others; I
  instead do takeout. I have continued this practice and expect to
  continue it indefinitely, as it has several benefits.

* There's also a trend within my supermarket consumption for the food
  to move away from pre-packed meals to home-prepped meals. For
  instance, I used to get pre-cooked chana masala, vegetable biryani,
  and misal curry from Trader Joe's, but by early 2022, I had stopped
  getting all of these. This was to the point that I haven't needed a
  microwave oven at all since 2022.

* As of 2023, I have basically zero sugar-heavy foods or drinks.

* I have two meals a day on a typical day. My first meal is generally
  after my morning exercise (with a suitable waiting period in between
  where feasible) and my second meal is in the evening. There is no
  planned-for difference between the meals: both meals are of
  approximately similar size and use the same foods in a similar mix.

## Supplements

You can get my supplement consumption history from
[here](../sql/supplements.sql). This may not go back all the way to
when I started consuming the supplements, but it should be reasonably
comprehensive 2020 onward.

For blood test results that include results for the quantity of the
materials supplemented, see
[here](https://github.com/vipulnaik/diet-exercise-health/blob/master/sql/test_results.sql).

### November 2017: start of supplementation with Vitamin D, Vitamin B12, and calcium/magnesium/zinc

I started this supplementation after my November 2017 India visit
where I learned more about my family health history and got my vitamin
levels tested to identify my deficiency. I subsequently switched to
brands that were locally available.

### December 2019: start of omega-3 supplementation

See [here](2019-12-30-decision-to-start-taking-omega-3-supplements.md)
for details of my decision process.

### July 2021: switch to Doctor's Best for Vitamin D supplementation

In July 2021, shortly after my [2021 blood test that confirmed my
continued good Vitamin D levels](2021-blood-test-plans.md), I switched
to a vegan 2500 IU Vitamin D3 supplement from Doctor's Best. I had
previously used the 2000 IU supplement from Finest Nutrition.

### Current supplements

My current supplement regime as of 2023 is:

* 1 daily 2500 IU vegan Vitamin D3 from Doctor's Best
  * My measured Vitamin D level is solidly in the normal range, but
    since my vegan diet has no Vitamin D3 (except a bit of
    fortification in my almond milk), continuing with the
    supplementation is the safe choice for now.

* 1 daily vegan omega-3 from Freshfield
  * As of the most recent measurement (2021) my omega-3 was still a
    bit on the low end, so I'm continuing with the supplementation,
    while also trying to get omega-3 from the diet as much as possible
    (spinach and walnuts)

* 1 daily Calcium/Magnesium/Zinc from Nature Made
  * This is just as a safety measure; I don't think I am deficient in
    any of these but it's good to top them up given my vegan diet.

* 1 daily Vitamin B12 (supplier can change over time)
  * I am not currently deficient in Vitamin B12 (the last test in 2018
    showed I was at the high end) but given my vegan diet, it's better
    to keep taking the supplement. Vitamin B12 is water-soluble so
    excess should flow out.

* Occasional Vitamin C supplement
  * I generally take this before or after events where I expect to be
    more exposed to infection; I don't think I am deficient in Vitamin
    C at all, but since it's water-soluble, excess can easily flow
    out.

With the exception of the occasional Vitamin C supplement, I have all
of these with my first meal of the day.

### Other one-off supplement consumption

Across late 2019, early 2020, and possibly a couple times in late 2020
/ early 2021, I consumed a curcumin supplement from a left-over bottle
given by a friend to deal with occasional inflammation issues (that
happened once every few months). I used up the bottle around when it
was expiring. I haven't bought anything similar since then, since I
haven't had similar inflammation issues.

## Exercise

I do running/jogging almost-daily, strength exercises about 3 times a
week, and various balance/flexibility exercises several times a week
(between 3 and 7 times a week). I also do hand gripper exercises
daily.

I describe my exercise routine in more detail in
[exercise-routine.md](exercise-routine.md).

### History of exercise

Daily jogging has been something I have tried to maintain throughout
my adult life, and I did something similar even as teen. My ability to
adhere to that goal has fluctuated based on weather conditions and
time commitments.

The switch to working-from-home in March 2020 (with the COVID-19
pandemic) helped me be more regular with daily jogging, as there was
less need to get ready at a specific time to commute. After an
[injury](2022-04-05-fall-and-phone-screen-crack.md) and subsequent
after moving my residence in April 2022, I increased the length and
consistency of my daily jogging distance, and also reduced my peak
jogging speed.

I hadn't done weights or strength training as a regular part of my
routine as an adult. I introduced it in November 2021 after purchasing
dumb bells and an exercise mat. See
[here](2021-11-02-weight-lifting-and-stretching.md) for details of my
initial progession. This was also around the time that I introduced
pushups; I had introduced some balance exercises a little earlier.

I started hand gripper exercises in July 2023; see
[here](2023-07-29-hand-gripper-exercise.md) for the initial
progression.

## Sleep

I go to sleep some time between 10:30 PM and 12:30 AM, depending on
how my work winds down as well as weather-related factors. I
occasionally go to sleep earlier (as early as 9:30 PM) or later (as
late as 3 AM).

While I do set an alarm to make sure I wake up in time for any
meetings or deliverables, my general goal is to wake up *before* the
alarm and to preemptively silence the alarm. On most days, I do
achieve this goal. My waking time can vary widely from 7 AM to 9 AM;
it depends a lot on when I go to sleep, whether I have a sleep backlog
from previous days, and the weather (I generally sleep in a bit more
if it's colder).

My average sleep duration is a little under 8 hours.

I generally don't remember dreams when I wake up, but I sometimes do
have dreams that I remember.

### Historical sleep issues

In the early 2010s, I had issues with falling asleep, and experimented
with taking melatonin a few times to improve my sleep quality. I did
not find clear improvement (but did not test extensively enough to get
conclusive information). In any case, my sleep issues resolved
themselves over time. As of 2023, I don't have any ongoing sleep
issues (such as difficult falling asleep, highly restless sleep, etc.)
 
## Other routine elements

### Bowel movements

I have daily morning bowel movements. Generally, after I wake up and
urinate, I spend about 10-15 minutes on the computer catching up on my
morning checklist, allowing the pressure to build up, then I have a
bowel movement.

### Dental routine

* Brushing: Once in the morning, and once about 1-5 hours after each
  meal (earlier if I need to go out after the meal so I can't wait the
  2-6 hours). Total 3 times per day. I use a soft (manual, not
  electric) toothbrush and change it every 3 months.

* Saltwater rinse: Once after post-meal cleanup for each meal. Total 2
  times per day.

* Flossing with interdental brush: Once after post-meal cleanup for
  first meal of the day, before saltwater rinse. Total once per day. I
  use a given interdental brush for about 3 days.

* Flossing with pick on floss holder: Once after post-meal cleanup for
  second meal of the day, after saltwater rinse. Total once per day.

## Medications

I do not take any ongoing medications (except supplements; see
[supplements](#supplements)).

### Pain medication in stock

I keep in stock not-yet-expired:

* acetaminophen/paracetamol (the active ingredient in tylenol, though
  I don't necessary use the tylenol brand)
* ibuprofen

Though I keep pain medication in stock, I don't generally consume it,
and in most cases, I have to throw it after it expires.

### Past medication consumption

* [2023-08-23 wisdom tooth removal (right
  side)](2023-08-23-wisdom-tooth-removal-right-side.md#consumption-of-medications):
  I consumed a few doses of pain medication, specifically 1 dose of
  hydrocodone / acetaminophen and 2 doses of ibuprofen. This was much
  less than the prescribed amount, but taking the pain medication was
  optional. I did not want to take too much pain medication because in
  my experience, taking too much pain medication can also end up
  masking my fatigue and get in the way of me being able to process my
  body's signals.

* [2023-07-05 wisdom tooth removal (left
  side)](2023-07-05-wisdom-tooth-removal-left-side.md#consumption-of-medications):
  I consumed 6 doses each of the antibiotic clindamycin, hydrocodone /
  acetaminophen, and ibuprofen. I had severe side-effects, likely from
  the consumption of the antibiotic. More details are in later
  sections of the linked doc.

* 2023-07-03: I took a test dose of acetaminophen in preparation for
  possibly needing to take it after my wisdom tooth removal. See
  [2023-07-03-acetaminophen-consumption.md](2023-07-03-acetaminophen-consumption.md)
  for more details.

I do not recall taking any non-supplement medication other than these
since 2018; I also don't recall taking non-supplement medication since
2014, though I might have taken some prior to 2018 that I don't
recall.

