# 2022-05-26: eye and skin irritation

## 2022-05-26

On 2022-05-26, I began experiencing a mild eye irritation. I believe
it started with, and was caused by, my opening a box of laundry
detergent powder. Although there was no incident involving a lot of
powder entering my eye, I have the impression that it was letting off
quite a bit of scent into the air.

I didn't notice the irritation immediately on exposure to the likely
irritant, but a little later. I washed my eyes. I also noticed a brown
spot in my right eye. The irritation was also stronger in my right
eye.

I also felt slightly more skin irritation, but not noticeably enough.

## 2022-05-27

### Eye

The eye irritation subsided by the next morning but came back
intermittently, once after breakfast and once after my evening run. In
both cases, I washed my eyes, though in the breakfast case I wasn't
able to wash my eyes immediately due to alternate commitments.

The irritation matched some but not all the symptoms of allergic
conjunctivitis. Most likely it's a minor eye irritation that should
resolve on its own in a few days.

Since I've had a little less sleep than usual in the last few days
(for a variety of reasons) I am hoping to get a longer night's sleep
and reassess next steps.

I investigated potential remedies, including eye drops, but will defer
purchases to a later date after seeing how things evolve.

### Skin

I had a bunch of shaving cuts; although none of them were serious, the
simultaneity of the shaving cuts is unusual. I suspect the irritation
of the skin from the previous day might have been causal.

## 2022-05-28

### Eye

By this time, there was no clearly identifiable or distracting eye
irritation, though when I self-probed there were times when I felt a
little irritation in the eye.

I also had occasion to do laundry again on this day, and I followed
various precautions to reduce potential for eye irritation:

* I used sunglasses while handling the laundry detergent.
* I kept the laundry detergent open for as little as possible; most of
  the time it was shut and enclosed in a plastic container.

### Skin

I did not notice any skin issues.

## 2022-05-29

### Eye

Everything felt normal with my eyes in the morning. In the afternoon,
for a while after doing laundry, I experienced a slight eye
irritation, despite taking all required precautions.

### Skin

I had a spontaneous slight bleeding of my middle knuckle of my left
hand. I noticed it because of a couple of blood drops that came
through my sweatshirt pocket in which I had my left hand. I initially
thought it was a splatter of red paint; only when I took my hand out
did I notice the bleeding.

This was somewhat surprising since I had been using moisturizer
regularly (though not focuse on that knuckle), and my frequency of
hand-washing was not meaningfully different than usual. I had also not
previously noticed anything particularly wrong with that knuckle. My
suspicion is that the previous skin irritation had made my hands a bit
more sensitive.

## 2022-05-30

I did not have any clearly identifiable eye or skin irritation outside
of the normal range. I did think I was more sensitive to picking up
smells than I usually am.
