# 2022-04 to 2022-05: moving and cleanup experience

In April 2022, I moved out of shared housing to my own apartment. The
process of moving and subsequent cleanup of the old place prior to key
handover took a lot of my time and energy. I came out of it in pretty
good shape, but there were some impacts on my health. This document
includes notes on the health impacts, including things I did well and
lessons for the future.

## Impact on hand health

Dealing with a lot of dirty stuff and the subsequent frequent
handwashing took a toll on my hands. Two methods I found that were
useful, though I applied one too late:

* Moisturizer: After noticing that my hands were drying up and
  cracking, I started using more moisturizer. After I had moved out of
  the old place, and was making trips to it to coordinate cleanup, I
  initially didn't bring moisturizer along. But after noticing my
  hands cracking up, I brought moisturizer along on each trip.

* Gloves: Toward the end, I realized that I have a lot of gloves and
  could benefit from using gloves; with gloves on, my hands didn't get
  that dirty and retained their softness; also the need for
  handwashing was less, creating a double benefit.

## Physical fatigue

Lugging stuff around (within the house, between houses, to Goodwill,
to electronics recycling) was tiring. A few things I realized I should
keep in mind.

### Don't wear sweatshirt in moderate heat

I usually wear my outside-wear sweatshirt when the weather is
lukewarm; this protects my shirt from the elements and keeps it
cleaner. However, given the level of physical exertion in these trips,
and them taking longer durations than my typical outside trips, I
realized that it's better not to wear my sweatshirt in the marginal
cases. When I did, I ended up sweating a lot.

### Skip relevant exercise

Since I regularly exercise (both running and weights) I decided to go
low on exercise during this moving process, so that my total
additional physical exertion was less. I didn't do any weights for the
2-3 weeks of the moving process, and I skipped morning runs on days
when I was spending the bulk of the day on cleanup work. I also
skipped evening runs for most of the 2-3 weeks duration.

## Risk of broken objects

There were a couple of Heinrich incidents with glass objects stuck to
other things I was removing, that fell to the floor. Neither of them
broke; if they had, there would have been tricky cleaning up of glass
shards with further risk of injury.

The main lesson was to be careful when moving objects that I don't
have intimate knowledge of, and be on the lookout for attached
objects.

## Dirt on clothes

### Use shoes

The first few times, I wore just my socks (no shoes) when cleaning the
old place. The socks got caked with dirt, not all of it came off in a
wash. For future trips, I chose to keep my shoes on, since the floor
was dirtier than my shoes.
